Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks,
and Vulnerabilities
1.

C. The correct answer is spear phishing. Spear phishing is targeted to a specific group, in this
case insurance professionals. Although this is a form of phishing, the more specific answer is
the one you will need to choose on questions like this. Phishing uses social engineering techniques to succeed but is once again a broader answer than spear phishing and thus is not the
correct choice. Finally, a Trojan horse pretends to be a legitimate or desirable program or file,
which this scenario doesn’t describe.

2.

B. A logic bomb is malware that performs its malicious activity when some condition is met.
A worm is malware that self-propagates. A Trojan horse is malware attached to a legitimate
program, and a rootkit is malware that gets root or administrative privileges.

3.

C. This is a very basic form of SQL injection. Cross-site scripting would have JavaScript in
the text field and would be designed to impact other sites from a user’s session. Cross-site
request forgery would not involve any text being entered in the web page, and ARP
poisoning is altering the ARP table in a switch; it is not related to website hacking.

4.

B. This describes a jamming attack, where legitimate traffic is interfered with by another
signal. Jamming can be intentional or unintentional and may be intermittent. IV attacks are
obscure cryptographic attacks on stream ciphers. Wi-Fi protected setup (WPS) uses a PIN to
connect to the wireless access point (WAP). The WPS attack attempts to intercept that PIN in
transmission, connect to the WAP, and then steal the WPA2 password. A botnet is a group of
machines that are being used, without their consent, as part of an attack.

5.

B. The best option listed to defend against the attacks mentioned is input validation.
Encrypting the web traffic will not have any effect on these two attacks. A web application
firewall (WAF) might mitigate these attacks, but it would be secondary to input validation,
and an intrusion detection system (IDS) will simply detect the attack—it won’t stop it.

6.

C. If users have been connecting but the AP does not show them connecting, then they have
been connecting to a rogue access point. This could be the cause of an architecture and
design weakness such as a network without segmentation and control of devices connecting
to the network. Session hijacking involves taking over an already authenticated session. Most
session hijacking attacks involve impersonation. The attacker attempts to gain access to
another user’s session by posing as that user. Clickjacking involves causing visitors to a website to click on the wrong item. Finally, bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.

7.

C. Cross-site scripting involves entering a script into text areas that other users will view.
SQL injection is not about entering scripts, but rather SQL commands. Clickjacking is about
tricking users into clicking on the wrong thing. Bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.

8.

D. Retaining the actual password is not a best practice, and thus encrypting password plain
text is not a common technique to make passwords harder to crack. Since the application
would need the cryptographic key to read the passwords, anybody who had access to
that key could decrypt the passwords. Using a salt, a pepper, and a cryptographic hashing
algorithm designed for passwords are all common best practices to prevent offline bruteforce attacks.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

9.

187

A. Although this is one of the more dated items on the Security+ exam outline, you need to
know that the term for Internet messaging spam messages is SPIM. The rest of the answers
were made up, and though this shows up in the exam outline, the rest of the world has
moved on from using this term.

10. B. A segmentation fault will typically stop the program from running. This type of issue is
why a NULL pointer or other pointer de-referencing error is considered a potential security
issue, as a denial-of-service condition impacts the availability of the service. This type of error
is unlikely to cause a data breach or allow privilege escalation, and permissions creep occurs
as individuals accrue more permissions over time in a single organization as their permissions
are not cleaned up when they switch positions or roles.
11. C. The machines in her network are being used as bots, and the users are not aware that they
are part of a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack. Social engineering is when someone
tries to manipulate you into giving information. Techniques involved in social engineering
attacks include consensus, scarcity, and familiarity. There is a slight chance that all computers
could have a backdoor, but that is very unlikely, and attackers normally don’t manually log
into each machine to do a DDoS—it would be automated, as through a bot.
12. C. There are many indicators of compromise (IoCs), including unusual outbound network
traffic, geographical irregularities like logins from a country where the person normally does
not work, or increases in database read volumes beyond normal traffic patterns. Predictive
analysis is analysis work done using datasets to attempt to determine trends and likely attack
vectors so that analysts can focus their efforts where they will be most needed and effective.
OSINT is open source intelligence, and threat maps are often real-time or near real-time visualizations of where threats are coming from and where they are headed to.
Use the following scenario for questions 13–15.
Chris has recently deployed a security information and event management (SIEM) device and
wants to use it effectively in his organization. He knows that SIEM systems have a broad
range of capabilities and wants to use the features to solve problems that he knows his organization faces. In each of the following questions, identify the most appropriate SIEM capability or technique to accomplish what Chris needs to do for his organization.
13. B. When troubleshooting TCP handshakes, the most valuable tool in many cases is packet
capture. If Chris sees a series of SYN packets without the handshake being completed, he
can be reasonably sure the firewall is blocking traffic. Reviewing reports or logs may be
useful for this as well but won’t show the TCP handshake issue mentioned in the problem,
and sentiment analysis is focused on how individuals and groups are responding, not on a
technical problem.
14. D. User behavior analysis is a key capability when attempting to detect potential insider
threats. Chris can use his SIEM’s behavioral analysis capabilities to detect improper or illicit
use of rights and privileges as well as abnormal behavior on the part of his users. Sentiment
analysis helps analyze feelings, and log aggregation and security monitoring provide ways to
gain insight into the overall security posture and status of the organization.
15. A. Using log aggregation to pull together logs from multiple sources, and performing
collection and initial analysis on log collectors can help centralize and handle large log
volumes. Capturing packets is useful for network traffic analysis to identify issues or security concerns. Security monitoring is an overall function for security information and event
management (SIEM) and doesn’t specifically help with this need. Both sentiment analysis
and user behavior analysis are aimed at users and groups rather than at how data is collected
and managed.
16. B. White teams act as judges and observers during cybersecurity exercises. Blue teams act as
defenders, red teams act as attackers, and purple teams are composed of both blue and red
team members to combine attack and defense knowledge to improve organizational security.
17. A. The simplest way to ensure that APIs are only used by legitimate users is to require the
use of authentication. API keys are one of the most frequently used methods for this. If an
API key is lost or stolen, the key can be invalidated and reissued, and since API keys can be
matched to usage, Cynthia’s company can also bill customers based on their usage patterns
if they want to. A firewall or IP restrictions may be able to help, but they can be fragile;
customer IP addresses may change. An intrusion prevention system (IPS) can detect and prevent attacks, but legitimate usage would be hard to tell from those who are not customers
using an IPS.
18. B. Buffer overflow attacks cram more data into a field or buffer than they can accept, overflowing into other memory locations and either crashing the system or application, or potentially allowing code to be inserted into executable locations. Bluesnarfing and bluejacking are
both Bluetooth attacks. Cross-site scripting attacks allow attackers to inject scripts into pages
viewed by other users.
19. A. Attackers are attempting to influence Gurvinder with a combination of scarcity and
urgency. Thus, for this question you should answer scarcity since urgency is not listed. In
many social engineering principle questions, more than one of the principles may be in
play, and you will need to answer with the principle that is correct or more correct for the
question. In this case, there is no intimidation or claim to authority, and consensus would
require some form of validation from others.
20. A. Vulnerability scans use automated tools to look for known vulnerabilities in systems and
applications and then provide reports to assist in remediation activities. Penetration tests seek
to actually exploit the vulnerabilities and break into systems. Security audits usually focus on
checking policies, incident reports, and other documents. Security test is a generic term for
any sort of test.
21. C. Username complexity has no impact in credential harvesting. Multifactor authentication
can help prevent successful credential harvesting by ensuring that even capture of username
and password is not enough to compromise the account. Awareness training helps to reduce
the likelihood of credential exposure, and limiting or preventing use of third-party web
scripts makes websites less likely to have credentials stolen through the use of those scripts,
plug-ins, or modules.
22. C. Greg can clone a legitimate Media Access Control (MAC) address if he can identify one
on the network. This can be as easy as checking for a MAC label on some devices or by capturing traffic on the network if he can physically access it.
23. A. From the description it appears that they are not connecting to the real web server but
rather a fake server. That indicates typo squatting: have a URL that is named very similarly
to a real site so that when users mistype the real site’s URL they will go to the fake site.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

189

Options B, C, and D are all incorrect. These are all methods of attacking a website, but in
this case, the actual website was not attacked. Instead, some users are visiting a fake site.
24. C. Domain hijacking, or domain theft, occurs when the registration or other information for
the domain is changed without the original registrant’s permission. This may occur because
of a compromised account or due to a breach of the domain registrar’s security. A common
issue is a lapsed domain being purchased by a third party, and this can look like a hijacked
domain, but it is a legitimate occurrence if the domain is not renewed! DNS hijacking inserts
false information into a DNS server, on-path (man-in-the-middle) attacks capture or modify
traffic by causing the traffic to pass through a compromised midpoint, and zero-day attacks
are attacks that use an unknown until used vulnerability.
25. D. The term for low-skilled hackers is script kiddie. Script kiddies typically use prebuilt tools
and do not have the expertise to make or modify their own tools. Nothing indicates this
is being done for ideological reasons, and thus that a hacktivist is involved. Although
“Amateur” may be an appropriate description, the correct term is script kiddie. Finally,
nothing in this scenario indicates an insider threat.
26. B. Phishing is intended to acquire data, most often credentials or other information that will
be useful to the attacker. Spam is a broader term for unwanted email, although the term is
often generally used to describe unwanted communications. Spear phishing targets specific
individuals, whereas whaling targets important people in an organization. Smishing is sent
via SMS (text message). Malware can be sent in any of these instances, but there is not a
specific related term that means “spam with malware in it.”
27. B. A collection of computers that are compromised, then centrally controlled to
perform actions like denial-of-service attacks, data collection, and other malicious activities
is called a botnet. Zombienets, Nullnets, and Attacknets are not commonly used terms to
describe botnets.
28. B. Systems and software that no longer have vendor support can be a significant security
risk, and ensuring that a vendor will continue to exist and provide support is an important
part of many procurement processes. Selah’s questions are intended to assess the longevity
and viability of the company and whether buying from them will result in her organization
having a usable product for the long term.
29. B. Passive reconnaissance is any reconnaissance that is done without actually connecting to
the target. In this case, John is conducting a form of OSINT, or open source intelligence, by
using commonly available third-party information sources to gather information about his
target. Active reconnaissance involves communicating with the target network, such as doing
a port scan. The initial exploitation is not information gathering; it is actually breaking into
the target network. A pivot is when you have breached one system and use that to move to
another system.
30. A. Server-side request forgery (SSRF) attempts typically attempt to get HTTP data passed
through and will not include SQL injection. Blocking sensitive hostnames, IP addresses, and
URLs are all valid ways to prevent SSRF, as is the use of whitelist-based input filters.
31. A. Domain Name System (DNS) poisoning attacks attempt to insert incorrect or malicious
entries into a trusted DNS server. Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) poisoning involves
altering the MAC-IP tables in a switch. Although cross-site scripting (XSS) and cross-site
request forgery (CSRF or XSRF) are both types of attacks, neither is a poisoning attack.
32. C. An unknown environment test is also called black-box or a zero-knowledge test because it
does not provide information beyond the basic information needed to identify the target.
A known environment, or white-box test, involves very complete information being given to
the tester. This scenario is probably done from outside the network, but external test is not
the correct terminology. Threat test is not a term used in penetration testing.
33. D. A pivot occurs when you exploit one machine and use that as a basis to attack other
systems. Pivoting can be done from internal or external tests. White- and black-box testing
describes the amount of information the tester is given in advance, not how the tester performs the test.
34. A. Shimming is when the attacker places some malware between an application and some
other file and intercepts the communication to that file (usually to a library or system API).
In many cases, this is done with a driver for a hardware component. A Trojan horse might be
used to get the shim onto the system, but that is not described in this scenario. A backdoor is
a means to circumvent system authorization and get direct access to the system. Refactoring
is the process of changing names of variables, functions, and so forth in a program.
35. C. SOAR is a relatively new category as defined by Gartner. Security orchestration, automation, and response includes threat and vulnerability management, security incident response,
and security operations automation, but not automated malware analysis.
36. C. Domain reputation services like Reputation Authority, Cisco’s Talos, McAfee’s
trustedsource.org, and Barracuda’s barracudacentral.org sites all provide
domain reputation data that allow you to look up a domain or IP address to determine if it is
currently blacklisted or has a poor reputation.
37. B. His machines are part of a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack. This scenario
describes a generic DDoS, not a specific one like SYN flood, which would involve many SYN
packets being sent without a full three-way TCP handshake. These machines could be part
of a botnet or they may just have a trigger that causes them to launch the attack at a specific
time. The real key in this scenario is the DDoS attack. Finally, a backdoor gives an attacker
access to the target system.
38. B. Since open Wi-Fi hotspots do not have a way to prove they are legitimate, they can be
easily spoofed. Attackers can stand up a fake version of the hotspot and then conduct an
SSL stripping attack by inserting themselves into sessions that victims attempt to open to
secure servers.
39. B. A Trojan horse attaches a malicious program to a legitimate program. When the user
downloads and installs the legitimate program, they get the malware. A logic bomb is malware that does its misdeeds when some condition is met. A rootkit is malware that gets
administrative, or root, access. A macro virus is a virus that is embedded in a document
as a macro.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

191

40. D. Whaling is targeting a specific individual who is important in the organization like the
president or chief financial officer (CFO). Spear phishing targets specific individuals or
groups, but whaling is more specific in terms of the importance of the individuals involved.
Targeted phishing is not a term used in the industry. Phishing is the generic term for a wide
range of related attacks, and you should choose the most accurate answer for questions
like this.
41. D. Criminal syndicates may produce, sell, and support malware tools, or may deploy them
themselves. Crypto malware and other packages are examples of tools often created and used
by criminal syndicates. State actors are more likely to be associated with advanced persistent
threats (APTs) aimed at accomplishing goals of the nation-state that supports them. Hacktivists typically have political motivations, whereas script kiddies may simply be in it for recognition or fun.
42. A. A rainbow table is a table of precomputed hashes, used to retrieve passwords. A backdoor is
used to gain access to a system, not to recover passwords. Social engineering and dictionary
attacks can both be used to gain access to passwords, but they are not tables of precomputed hashes.
43. B. The most common concern that will arise when a vendor no longer supports a device is a
lack of updates or patches. This is particularly concerning when the devices are operational
technology such as utility, lighting, or other infrastructure control devices that have a very
long life cycle and control important processes or systems. Although improper data storage,
lack of documentation, and configuration issues can all be issues, lack of updates and patching remains the biggest and most frequent issue.
44. A. Bluejacking involves sending unsolicited messages to Bluetooth devices when they are in
range. Bluesnarfing involves getting data from the Bluetooth device. An evil twin attack uses
a rogue access point whose name is similar or identical to that of a legitimate access point.
45. A. Since Dennis is able to view the web traffic before it is sent to the actual server, he should
be able to conduct a plain-text password attack by intercepting the password. Pass-the-hash
attacks are typically used inside Windows environments, SQL injection would attack the
server, and cross-site scripting is possible but not as likely as the plain-text password attack
in this scenario.
46. A. Dumpster diving is the term for rummaging through the waste/trash to recover useful
documents or materials. Penetration testers and attackers may dumpster-dive as part of
their efforts. In fact, emptying trash cans in a location can provide useful information even
without jumping into a dumpster! Trash diving and trash engineering are not the terms used
in the industry. Nothing in this scenario describes social engineering.
47. A. This is a remote-access Trojan (RAT), malware that opens access for someone to remotely
access the system. A worm would have spread itself via a vulnerability, whereas a logic bomb
runs when some logical condition is met. Finally, a rootkit provides root or administrative
access to the system.
48. B. Zero-day exploits are new, and they are not in the virus definitions for the antivirus (AV)
programs. This makes them difficult to detect, except by their behavior. RATs, worms, and
rootkits are more likely to be detected by AV programs.
49. D. Radio frequency identifier (RFID) attacks typically focus on data capture, spoofing RFID
data, or conducting a denial-of-service attack. Birthday attacks are used against cryptosystems, which may be part of an RFID tag environment, but they aren’t a common attack
against RFID systems.
50. C. Initialization vectors are used with stream ciphers. An IV attack attempts to exploit a flaw
to use the IV to expose encrypted data. Nothing in this scenario requires or describes a rogue
access point/evil twin. Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) uses a PIN to connect to the wireless
access point (WAP). The WPS attack attempts to intercept that PIN in transmission, connect
to the WAP, and then steal the WPA2 password.
51. C. This description does not include any risk to availability since there is no information
about systems or services being down or offline. This scenario would likely result in reputational, financial, and data loss impacts for Scott’s company.
52. B. Cross-site request forgery (XSRF or CSRF) sends fake requests to a website that purport
to be from a trusted, authenticated user. Cross-site scripting (XSS) exploits the trust the user
has for the website and embeds scripts into that website. Bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.
Nothing in this scenario requires or describes an evil twin, which is an attack that uses a
malicious access point that duplicates a legitimate AP.
53. A. Cyberintelligence fusion is the process of gathering, analyzing, and then distributing
information between disparate agencies and organizations. Fusion centers like those operated
by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) focus on strengthening shared intelligence activities. They are not specifically tasked with building tools by combining other
tools, although they may in some cases. They are not power plants, and they are focused on
gathering and sharing information, not building a classification structure.
54. B. The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) list has entries that describe and provide references to publicly known cybersecurity vulnerabilities. A CVE feed will provide
updated information about new vulnerabilities and a useful index number to cross reference
with other services.
55. B. A birthday attack exploits the birthday problem in probability theory and relies on finding
collisions between random attack attempts and the number of potential permutations of a
solution. Birthday attacks are one method of attacking cryptographic hash functions. They
are not a social engineering attack, a network denial-of-service attack, or a TCP/IP protocol attack.
56. B. This an example of a disassociation attack. The deauthentication packet causes Juanita’s
system to disassociate, and the attacker can then execute a second attack targeting her
authentication credentials or other wireless data using an evil twin attack. Misconfiguration
won’t cause authenticated users to deauthenticate. Session hijacking involves taking over an
authenticated session. Backdoors are built-in methods to circumvent authentication.
57. A. Dictionary attacks use a list of words that are believed to be likely passwords. A rainbow
table is a precomputed table of hashes. Brute force tries every possible random combination.
If an attacker has the original plain text and ciphertext for a message, they can determine
the key space used through brute-force attempts targeting the key space. Session hijacking is
when the attacker takes over an authenticated session.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

193

58. B. Downgrade attacks seek to make a Transport Layer Security (TLS) connection use a
weaker cipher version, thus allowing the attacker to more easily break the encryption and
read the protected data. In a disassociation attack, the attacker attempts to force the victim
into disassociating from a resource. Session hijacking is when the attacker takes over an
authenticated session. Brute-force attempts every possible random combination to get the
password or encryption key.
59. D. A collision is when two different inputs produce the same hash. A rainbow table is a table
of precomputed hashes. Brute force attempts every possible random combination to get the
password or encryption key. Session hijacking is when the attacker takes over an authenticated session.
60. C. An advanced persistent threat (APT) involves sophisticated (i.e., advanced) attacks over a
period of time (i.e., persistent). A distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) could be a part of an
APT, but in and of itself is unlikely to be an APT. Brute force attempts every possible random
combination to get the password or encryption key. In a disassociation attack, the attacker
attempts to force the victim into disassociating from a resource.
61. B. Phishing is not commonly used to acquire email addresses. Phishing emails target personal
information and sensitive information like passwords and credit card numbers in most cases.
62. A. When an IDS or antivirus mistakes legitimate traffic for an attack, this is called a false
positive. A false negative is when the IDS mistakes an attack for legitimate traffic. It is the
opposite of a false positive. Options C and D are both incorrect. Although these may be
grammatically correct, these are not the terms used in the industry. In military operations,
false flag operations attempt to transfer blame to another company, thus a “false flag.”
63. B. A keylogger is a software or hardware tool used to capture keystrokes. Keyloggers are
often used by attackers to capture credentials and other sensitive information. A rootkit is
used to obtain and maintain administrative rights on a system, and a worm is a self-spreading
form of malware that frequently targets vulnerable services on a network to spread.
64. A. The term for attempting to gain any privileges beyond what you have is privilege escalation. Session hijacking is taking over an authenticated session. Root grabbing and climbing
are not terms used in the industry.
65. B. MAC flooding attacks attempt to overflow a switch’s CAM table, causing the switch to
send all traffic to all ports rather than to the port that a given MAC address is associated
with. Although this was possible with many older switches, most modern switches are less
susceptible to this type of attack, and some have security capabilities built in to prevent this
type of attack.
66. B. Spyware and adware are both common examples PUPs, or potentially unwanted programs. Though not directly malicious, they can pose risks to user privacy as well as create
annoyances like popups or other unwanted behaviors. Trojans appear to be legitimate programs or are paired with them, RATs provide remote access and are a subcategory of Trojans,
and ransomware demands payment or other actions to avoid damage to files or reputation.
67. C. A race condition can occur when multiple threads in an application are using the same
variable and the situation is not properly handled. Option A is incorrect. A buffer overflow is
attempting to put more data in a buffer than it is designed to hold. Option B is incorrect.
A logic bomb is malware that performs its misdeed when some logical condition is met.
Option D is incorrect. As the name suggests, improper error handling is the lack of adequate
or appropriate error handling mechanisms within software.
68. B. The malware in this example is a Trojan horse—it pretends to be something desirable, or
at least innocuous, and installs malicious software in addition to or instead of the desired
software. A rootkit gives root or administrative access, spyware is malware that records user
activities, and a boot sector virus is a virus that infects the boot sector of the hard drive.
69. B. The Postgres server is set up using a weak password for the user postgres, the
administrative login for the database. This is a form of unsecured administrative or root
account. Interestingly, this is not a default setting, since Postgres uses no password by default
for the Postgres account—an even worse setting than using postgres as the password, but
not by much!
70. A. Annie has moved laterally. Lateral movement moves to systems at the same trust level. This
can provide access to new data or different views of the network depending on how the systems and security are configured. Privilege escalation involves gaining additional privileges,
often those of an administrative user. Vertical movement is sometimes referenced when gaining access to systems or accounts with a higher security or trust level. Privilege retention was
made up for this question.
71. A. This is an example of a false positive. A false positive can cause a vulnerability to show
that was not actually there. This sometimes happens when a patch or fix is installed but the
application does not change in a way that shows the change, and it has been an issue with
updates where the version number is the primary check for a vulnerability. When a vulnerability scanner sees a vulnerable version number but a patch has been installed that does not
update it, a false positive report can occur. A false negative would report a patch or fix where
there was actually a vulnerability. Automatic updates were not mentioned, nor was a specific
Apache version.
72. C. A buffer overflow is possible when boundaries are not checked and the attacker tries to
put in more data than the variable can hold. Cross-site scripting (XSS) is a web page attack.
Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) is a web page attack. A logic bomb is malware that performs its misdeed when some condition is met.
73. C. Consensus, sometimes called social proof, is a social engineering principle that leverages
the fact that people are often willing to trust groups of other people. Here, the attackers have
planted false information that the software is trustworthy, thus allowing targets to “prove” to
themselves that they can safely install the software. Scarcity uses a perception that something
may not be available or is uncommon and thus desirable. Familiarity takes advantage of the
trust that individuals put into people and organizations they are already familiar with. Trustbased attacks exploit a perception of trustworthiness.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

195

74. B. A logic bomb performs malicious actions when a specific condition or conditions are met.
A boot sector virus infects the boot sector of the hard drive. A buffer overflow occurs when
the attacker attempts to put more data in a variable than it can hold. A sparse infector virus
performs its malicious activity intermittently to make it harder to detect.
75. B. Elicitation, or the process of eliciting information through conversation to gather useful
information, is a key tool in a penetration tester’s social engineering arsenal. Pretexting
involves the use of believable reasons for the target to go along with whatever the social engineering is attempting to do. Impersonation involves acting like someone you are not, whereas
intimidation attempts to scare or threaten the target into doing what the social engineer
wants them to.
76. B. All of these protocols are unsecure. FTP has been replaced by secure versions in some uses
(SFTP/FTPS), whereas Telnet has been superseded by SSH in modern applications. RSH is
outmoded and should be seen only on truly ancient systems. If you find a system or device
exposing these protocols, you will need to dig in further to determine why they are exposed
and how they can be protected if they must remain open for a legitimate reason.
77. B. The best way for Scott to determine where an organization’s wireless networks can be
accessed from is to use war driving, war flying, and/or war walking techniques to map out
the wireless signal footprint of the organization. OSINT and active scans would be useful
gathering information about the organization and its systems, but not about its wireless networks range and accessibility, and social engineering is more likely to be useful for gathering
information or gaining access to facilities or systems.
78. A. A macro virus is a malicious script (macro) embedded into a file, typically a Microsoft
Office file. They are typically written in Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) script. A boot
sector virus infects the boot sector of the hard drive. A Trojan horse is malware that is tied to
a legitimate program. In this scenario, the malware is actually embedded in an Office document. The two are similar, but not the same. A remote access Trojan (RAT) is a Trojan horse
that gives the attacker remote access to the machine.
79. C. By giving the tester logins, you are allowing them to conduct a credentialed scan (i.e.,
a scan with an account or accounts that allow them access to check settings and configurations). Known environment and partially known environment tests describe the level of
knowledge the tester is given of the network. A privilege scan cannot be an unknown environment test, but it could be either known or partially known. An intrusive scan is a term
used for scans that attempt to exercise or use the vulnerability they find instead of attempting
to avoid harm.
80. B. The Security+ exam expects practitioners to be able to analyze scripts and code to determine roughly what function they perform and to be able to identify multiple programming
languages. Python relies on formatting like indenting to indicate blocks of code and does not
use line end indicators as you would find in some languages. This code is a basic Python port
scanner that will scan every port from 1 to 9999, checking to see if it allows a connection.
81. C. Botnets are often used to launch DDoS attacks, with the attack coming from all the
computers in the botnet simultaneously. Phishing attacks attempt to get the user to give up
information, click on a link, or open an attachment. Adware consists of unwanted pop-up
ads. A Trojan horse attaches malware to a legitimate program.
82. B. Amanda has discovered an insider threat. Insider threats can be difficult to discover, as a
malicious administrator or other privileged user will often have the ability to conceal their
actions or may actually be the person tasked with hunting for threats like this! This is not a
zero-day—no vulnerability was mentioned, there was no misconfiguration since this was an
intentional action, and encryption is not mentioned or discussed.
83. B. Social media influence campaigns seek to achieve the goals of the attacker or owner of
the campaign. They leverage social media using bots and groups of posters to support the
ideas, concepts, or beliefs that align with the goals of the campaign. Impersonation is a type
of social engineering attack where the attacker pretends to be someone else. A watering hole
attack places malware or malicious code on a site or sites that are frequently visited by a
targeted group. Asymmetric warfare is warfare between groups with significantly different
power or capabilities.
84. C. Using default settings is a form of weak configuration. Many vulnerability scanners and
attack tools have default settings built-in to test with, and default settings are easily obtained
for most devices with a quick search of the Internet. Configuring the accounts is not the
issue; changing default passwords and settings is. Although training users is important,
that’s not the issue in this scenario. Patching systems is important, but that won’t change
default settings.
85. D. In a DLL injection, the malware attempts to inject code into the process of some library.
This is a rather advanced attack. Option A is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its misdeed
when some condition is met. Option B is incorrect. Session hijacking is taking over an
authenticated session. Option C is incorrect. Buffer overflows are done by sending more data
to a variable than it can hold.
86. B. State actors (or nation-state actors) often have greater resources and skills, making them
a more significant threat and far more likely to be associated with an advanced persistent
threat actor. Script kiddies, hacktivists, and insider threats tend to be less capable and are all
far less likely to be associated with an APT.
87. C. An intrusive scan attempts to actively exploit vulnerabilities, and thus could possibly
cause some disruption of operations. For this reason, it should be conducted outside normal
business hours or in a test environment, if it is used at all. A nonintrusive scan attempts
to identify vulnerabilities without exploiting them. A penetration test actually attempts to
breach the network by exploiting vulnerabilities. An audit is primarily a document check.
Both intrusive and nonintrusive vulnerability scans can be effective at finding vulnerabilities.
88. C. A backdoor is a method for bypassing normal security and directly accessing the system.
A logic bomb is malware that performs its misdeeds when some condition is met. A Trojan
horse wraps a malicious program to a legitimate program. When the user downloads and
installs the legitimate program, they get the malware. A rootkit is malware that gets root or
administrative privileges.
89. D. The fact that the website is defaced in a manner related to the company’s public indicates
that the attackers were most likely engaging in hacktivism to make a political or belief-based
point. Scripts, nation-state actors, and organized crime don’t account for the statements
adverse to the company’s policies, which is why hacktivism is the real cause.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

197

90. A. Pharming attempts to redirect traffic intended for a legitimate site to another malicious
site. Attackers most often do this by changing the local hosts file or by exploiting a trusted
DNS server.
91. B. Password spraying is a specific type of brute force attack which uses a smaller list of
common passwords for many accounts to attempt to log in. Although brute forcing is technically correct, the best match here is password spraying. When you encounter questions like
this on the test, make sure you provide the most accurate answer, rather than one that fits
but may not be the best answer. Limited login attacks is a made-up answer, and spinning an
account refers to changing the password for an account, often because of a compromise or to
prevent a user from logging back into it while preserving the account.
92. C. Although you might suppose that a nation-state attacker (the usual attacker behind an
advanced persistent threat) would attack from a foreign IP address, they often use a compromised address in the target country as a base for attacks. Options A, B, and D are all incorrect.
These are actually signs of an advanced persistent threat.
93. B. A privilege escalation attack can occur horizontally, where attackers obtain similar levels
of privilege but for other users, or vertically where they obtain more advanced rights. In
this case, Charles has discovered a vertical privilege escalation attack that has allowed the
attacker to obtain administrative rights. Cross-site scripting and SQL injection are both
common types of web application attacks, and a race condition occurs when data can be
changed between when it is checked and when it is used.
94. A. Evil twin attacks use a malicious access point configured to appear to be identical to
a legitimate AP. Attackers wait for their targets to connect via the evil twin, and can then
capture or modify traffic however they wish. IP spoofing uses the IP address of a system
already on the network, Trojan horses are malware that appear to be legitimate software or
files, and privilege escalation is the process of using exploits to gain higher privileges.
95. A. A zero-day exploit or attack occurs before the vendor has knowledge of it. The remainder
of the answers don’t accurately describe a zero-day attack—just because it has not yet been
breached does not make it a zero-day, nor is a zero-day necessarily quickly exploitable.
Finally, a zero-day attack does not specify how long the attacker may have access.
96. D. Prepending is one of the stranger terms that appear on the CompTIA Security+ exam and
is not a commonly used phrase in the industry. Thus, you need to know that when it is used
for this exam it can mean one of three things: adding an expression or phrase to an email,
subject line, or headers to either protect or fool users. They also note that it can be used when
adding data as part of an attack, and that social engineers may “prepend” information by
inserting it into conversation to get targets to think about things the attacker wants them to.
Pretexing is a social engineering technique where attackers use a reason that is intended to be
believable to the target for what they are doing. SQL injection is attempts to add SQL code
to a web query to gain additional access or data. Prepending is used to cover a wide variety
of techniques in the Security+ exam outline that focus on adding information or data to
existing content.
97. D. Although auditing some libraries or libraries that are custom-developed for the code is
common, auditing all libraries used in the code is unlikely except in exceptional situations.
The remainder of these practices are all commonly used when working with outsourced
code development teams.
98. C. DNS poisoning occurs when false DNS information is inserted into legitimate DNS
servers, resulting in traffic being redirected to unwanted or malicious sites. A backdoor provides access to the system by circumventing normal authentication. An APT is an advanced
persistent threat. A Trojan horse ties a malicious program to a legitimate program.
99. C. Spyware and adware are both common examples of a PUP, or potentially unwanted
program. A CAT was made up for this question and is not a common categorization for
malware, whereas worms are self-spreading malware that often exploit vulnerabilities to
spread via a network. Trojans pretend to be legitimate software or paired with legitimate
software to gain entry to a system or device.
100. B. A Trojan horse pretends to be legitimate software, and may even include it, but also
includes malicious software as well. Backdoors, RATs, and polymorphic viruses are all
attacks, but they do not match what is described in the question scenario.
101. A. A remote access Trojan (RAT) is malware that gives the attacker remote access to the
victim machine. Macro viruses operate inside of Microsoft Office files. Although a backdoor will give access, it is usually something in the system put there by programmers, not
introduced by malware. A RAT is a type of Trojan horse, but a Trojan horse is more general
than what is described in the scenario. When you encounter questions like this on the exam,
you will need to select the best answer, not just one that may answer the question!
102. B. Card cloning often occurs after a skimming attack is used to capture card data, whether
from credit cards or entry access cards. Brute-force and rainbow table-based attacks are
both used against passwords, whereas a birthday attack is a cryptographic attack often
aimed at finding two messages that hash to the same value.
103. B. Cross-site request forgery (XSRF or CSRF) sends forged requests to a website, supposedly from a trusted user. Cross-site scripting (XSS) is the injection of scripts into a website
to exploit the users. A buffer overflow tries to put more data in a variable than the variable
can hold. A remote-access Trojan (RAT) is malware that gives the attacker access to the
system.
104. A. A denial-of-service (DoS) attack may target a memory leak. If an attacker can induce the
web application to generate the memory leak, then eventually the web application will consume all memory on the web server and the web server will crash. Backdoors are not caused
by memory leaks. SQL injection places malformed SQL into text boxes. A buffer overflow
attempts to put more data in a variable than it can hold.
105. D. This is an example of an application distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack, aimed
at a gaming application. A network DDoS would be aimed at network technology, either the
devices or protocols that underly networks. An operational technology (OT) DDoS targets
SCADA, ICS, utility or similar operational systems. A GDoS was made up for this question.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

199

106. D. Purple teams are a combination of red and blue teams intended to leverage the techniques and tools from both sides to improve organizational security. A red team is a team
that tests security by using tools and techniques like an actual attacker. A blue team is a
defender team that protects against attackers (and testers like red teams!). White teams
oversee cybersecurity contests and judge events between red teams and blue teams.
107. B. This is an example of ransomware, which demands payment to return your data.
A rootkit provides access to administrator/root privileges. A logic bomb executes its
malicious activity when some condition is met. This scenario does not describe whaling.
108. D. If access is not handled properly, a time of check/time of use condition can exist where
the memory is checked, changed, then used. Memory leaks occur when memory is allocated
but not deallocated. A buffer overflow is when more data is put into a variable than it can
hold. An integer overflow occurs when an attempt is made to put an integer that is too large
into a variable, such as trying to put a 64-bit integer into a 32-bit variable.
109. B. Near-field communication (NFC) is susceptible to an attacker eavesdropping on the
signal. Tailgating is a physical attack and not affected by NFC technology. Both IP spoofing
and race conditions are unrelated to NFC technology.
110. B. Fileless viruses often take advantage of PowerShell to perform actions once they have
used a vulnerability in a browser or browser plug-in to inject themselves into system
memory. Rick’s best option from the list provided is to enable PowerShell logging and then
to review the logs on systems he believes are infected. Since fileless viruses don’t use files, an
image of the disk is unlikely to provide much useful data. Disabling the administrative user
won’t have an impact, since the compromise will happen inside the account of whichever
user is logged in and impacted by the malware. Crash dump files could have artifacts of the
fileless virus if the machine crashed while it was active, but unless that occurs they will not
have that information.
111. B. Tailgating involves simply following a legitimate user through the door once they have
opened it, and it is a common means of exploiting a smartcard-based entry access system. It
is simpler and usually easier than attempting to capture and clone a card. Phishing is unrelated to physical security. Although it is possible to generate a fake smartcard, it is a very
uncommon attack. RFID spoofing can be accomplished but requires access to a valid RFID
card and is relatively uncommon as well.
112. B. Adam should look for one or more threat feeds that match the type of information he
is looking for. Open threat feeds exist that typically use STIX and TAXII to encode and
transfer feed data to multiple tools in an open format. None of the other feed types here
would meet Adam’s needs.
113. B. Malicious tools like BadUSB can make a USB cable or drive look like a keyboard when
they are plugged in. Somewhat strangely, the Security+ exam outline focuses on malicious
USB cables, but you should be aware that malicious thumb drives are far more common and
have been used by penetration testers simply by dropping them in a parking lot near their
intended target. A Trojan or a worm is a possibility, but the clue involving the keyboard
would point to a USB device as the first place Naomi should look.
114. D. Using a pass-the-hash attack requires attackers to acquire a legitimate hash, and then
present it to a server or service. A real hash was provided; it was not spoofed. An evil twin
is a wireless attack. Shimming is inserting malicious code between an application and a
library.
115. B. Claiming to be from tech support is claiming authority, and the story the caller gave
indicates urgency. Yes, this caller used urgency (the virus spread) but did not attempt
intimidation. Authority and trust are closely related, and in this case urgency was the second
major factor. This caller used urgency but not intimidation.
116. B. The questions tells us that these are Windows 10 systems, a current operating system.
From there, it is safe to presume that something has gone wrong with the patching process
or that there isn’t a patching process. Elaine should investigate both what the process is and
if there are specific reasons the systems are not patched. Since we know these systems run a
current OS, option A, unsupported operating systems, can be ruled out. The vulnerabilities
are specifically noted to be Windows vulnerabilities, ruling out option C, and there is no
mention of protocols, eliminating option D as well.
117. A. Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) poisoning, often called ARP spoofing, occurs when
an attacker sends malicious ARP packets to the default gateway of a local area network,
causing it to change the mappings it maintains between hardware (MAC) addresses and
IP addresses. In DNS poisoning, domain name to IP address entries in a DNS server are
altered. This attack did not involve an on-path attack. A backdoor provides access to the
attacker, which circumvents normal authentication.
118. A. In a known environment (white-box) test, the tester is given extensive knowledge of the
target network. Full disclosure is not a term used to describe testing. Unknown environment
(black-box) testing involves only very minimal information being given to the tester. A red
team test simulates a particular type of attacker, such as a nation-state attacker, an insider,
or other type of attacker.
119. C. Social engineering is about using people skills to get information you would not
otherwise have access to. Illegal copying of software isn’t social engineering, nor is gathering
of discarded manuals and printouts, which describes dumpster diving. Phishing emails use
some social engineering, but that is one example of social engineering, not a definition.
120. C. Shoulder surfing involves literally looking over someone’s shoulder in a public place and
gathering information, perhaps login passwords. ARP poisoning alters the Address Resolution Protocol tables in the switch. Phishing is an attempt to gather information, often via
email, or to convince a user to click a link to, and/or download, an attachment. A Smurf
attack is a historical form of denial-of-service attack.
121. A. Invoice scams typically either send legitimate appearing invoices to trick an organization
into paying the fake invoice, or they focus on tricking employees into logging into a fake
site to allow the acquisition of credentials. They typically do not focus on delivery of malware or stealing cryptocurrency.
122. B. Vulnerability scans use automated and semiautomated processes to identify known vulnerabilities. Audits usually involve document checks. Unknown and known environment
testing are both types of penetration tests.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

201

123. A. A partially known (gray-box) test involves the tester being given partial information
about the network. A known environment (white-box) test involves the tester being given
full or nearly full information about the target network, and unknown (black-box) environments don’t provide information about the target environment. Masked is not a testing
term.
124. D. In the on-path (man-in-the-middle) attack, the attacker is between the client and the
server, and to either end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end. This does not
describe any denial-of-service attack. A replay attack involves resending login information.
Although an on-path attack can be used to perform eavesdropping, in this scenario the best
answer is an on-path attack.
125. A. In a man-in-the-browser attack, the malware intercepts calls from the browser to the
system, such as system libraries. On-path attack involves having some process between the
two ends of communication in order to compromise passwords or cryptography keys. In a
buffer overflow attack, more data is put into a variable than the variable was intended to
hold. Session hijacking involves taking over an authenticated session.
126. B. Uniform resource locator (URL) redirection is frequently used in web applications
to direct users to another service or portion of the site. If this redirection is not properly
secured, it can be used to redirect to an arbitrary untrusted or malicious site. This issue,
known as Open Redirect vulnerabilities, remains quite common. The code shown does not
contain SQL or LDAP code, and there is no mention of changing DNS information on the
server, thus making the other options incorrect.
127. D. Placing a larger integer value into a smaller integer variable is an integer overflow.
Memory overflow is not a term used, and memory leak is about allocating memory and not
deallocating it. Buffer overflows often involve arrays. Variable overflow is not a term used
in the industry.
128. B. Cross-site request forgery (XSRF or CSRF) takes advantage of the cookies and URL
parameters legitimate sites use to help track and serve their visitors. In an XSRF or a CSRF
attack, attackers leverage authorized, authenticated users’ rights by providing them with
a cookie or session data that will be read and processed when they visit the target site. An
attacker may embed a link within an email or other location that will be clicked or executed
by the user or an automated process with that user’s session already open. This is not SQL
injection, which would attempt to send commands to a database, or LDAP injection, which
gathers data from a directory server. Cross-site scripting (XSS) would embed code in usersubmittable data fields that a website will display to other users, causing it to run.
129. D. You will need to be able to read and understand basic scripts and programs in multiple
languages for the Security+ exam. In this example, you can recognize common Bash syntax
and see that it is adding a key to the authorized keys file for root. If that’s not an expected
script, you should be worried!
130. D. Rootkits provide administrative access to systems, thus the “root” in rootkit. A Trojan
horse combines malware with a legitimate program. A logic bomb performs its malicious
activity when some condition is met. A multipartite virus infects the boot sector and a file.
131. C. Memory leaks can cause crashes, resulting in an outage. This targets the availability
leg of the CIA (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) triad, making it a security issue.
Memory leaks do not actually leak to other locations, nor do they allow code injection.
Instead memory leaks cause memory exhaustion or other issues over time as memory is not
properly reclaimed.
132. B. This question combines two pieces of knowledge: how botnet command and control
works, and that IRC’s default port is TCP 6667. Although this could be one of the other
answers, the most likely answer given the information available is a botnet that uses
Internet Relay Chat (IRC) as its command-and-control channel.
133. A. Software updates for consumer-grade wireless routers are typically applied as firmware
updates, and Susan should recommend that the business owner regularly upgrade their
wireless router firmware. If updates are not available, they may need to purchase a new
router that will continue to receive updates and configure it appropriately. This is not a
default configuration issue nor an unsecured administrative account—neither is mentioned,
nor is encryption.
134. B. Radio frequency identification (RFID) is commonly used for access badges, inventory
systems, and even for identifying pets using implantable chips. In a penetration testing scenario, attackers are most likely to attempt to acquire or clone RFID-based access badges to
gain admittance to a building or office suite.
135. B. The word you will need to know for the Security+ exam for phishing via SMS is
“smishing,” a term that combines SMS and phishing. Bluejacking sends unsolicited messages
to Bluetooth devices, and phonejacking and text whaling were made up for this question.
136. B. This is vishing, or using voice calls for phishing. Spear phishing is targeting a small,
specific group. War dialing is dialing numbers hoping a computer modem answers. Robocalling is used to place unsolicited telemarketing calls.
137. A. Worms spread themselves via vulnerabilities, making this an example of a worm. A virus
is software that self-replicates. A logic bomb executes its malicious activity when some
condition is met. A Trojan horse combines malware with a legitimate program.
138. B. Dumpster diving is the process of going through the trash to find documents. Shredding
documents will help to prevent dumpster diving, but truly dedicated dumpster divers can
reassemble even well-shredded documents, leading some organizations to burn their most
sensitive documents after they have been shredded. Phishing is often done via email or
phone and is an attempt to elicit information or convince a user to click a link or open an
attachment. Shoulder surfing is literally looking over someone’s shoulder. In the on-path
(man-in-the-middle) attack, the attacker is between the client and the server, and to either
end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end.
139. B. Systems should not have a rootkit on them when a penetration test starts, and rootkits installed during the test should be fully removed and securely deleted. The rest of the
options are all typical parts of a penetration testing cleanup process. You can read more at
the penetration testing standard site at www.pentest-standard.org/index.php/
Post_Exploitation.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

203

140. C. This is an example of an online brute-force dictionary attack. Dictionary attacks use
common passwords as well as common substitutions to attempt to break into a system or
service. Back-off algorithms that lock out attackers after a small number of incorrect password attempts can help slow or stop dictionary attacks and other brute-force password
attacks. Rainbow tables are tables of precomputed hashes. The birthday attack is a method
for generating collisions of hashes. Finally, no spoofing is indicated in this scenario.
141. C. Jim has discovered a skimmer, a device used for skimming attacks that capture credit
and debit card information. Skimmers may be able to wirelessly upload the information
they capture, or they may require attackers to retrieve data in person. Some skimmers
include cameras to capture keypresses for PINs and other data. A replay attack would reuse
credentials or other information to act like a legitimate user, a race condition occurs when
the time of use and time of check of data can be exploited, and a card cloner would be used
after cards were skimmed to duplicate them.
142. D. Active reconnaissance connects to the network using techniques such as port scanning.
Both active and passive reconnaissance can be done manually or with tools. Black-box and
white-box refer to the amount of information the tester is given. Attackers and testers use
both types of reconnaissance.
143. D. Browser toolbars are sometimes examples of PUPs, or potentially unwanted programs
like spyware or adware. A worm is a type of malware that spreads on its own by exploiting
vulnerabilities on network-connected systems. Once it infects a system, it will typically scan
for other vulnerable systems and continue to spread. A RAT is a remote-access Trojan, and
a rootkit is used to gain and keep administrative access.
144. B. OSINT, or open source intelligence, is intelligence information obtained from public
sources like search engines, websites, domain name registrars, and a host of other
locations. OPSEC, or operational security, refers to habits such as not disclosing
unnecessary information. STIX is the Structured Threat Intelligence Exchange protocol, and
IntCon was made up for this question.
145. C. Watering hole attacks target groups by focusing on common shared behaviors like
visiting specific websites. If attackers can compromise the site or deliver targeted attacks
through it, they can then target that group. Watercooler, phishing net, and phish pond
attacks were all made up for this question.
146. C. Although Structured Query Language (SQL) queries are often parameterized, Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) security practices focus instead on user input
validation and filtering of output to ensure that an excessive amount of data is not being
returned in queries. As with all services, securely configuring LDAP services is one of the
first protections that should be put in place.
147. B. Although it may sound dramatic, sites accessible via Tor or other tools that separate
them from the rest of the Internet are sometimes called “the dark web.” The Security+ exam
uses this term, so you need to be aware of it for the exam. The rest of the options were
made up and may be almost as silly as calling a section of the Internet the dark web.
148. B. URL redirection has many legitimate uses, from redirecting traffic from no-longersupported links to current replacements to URL shortening, but URL redirection was commonly used for phishing attacks. Modern browsers display the full, real URL, helping to
limit the impact of this type of attack. Certificate expiration tracking is used to ensure that
website certificates are current, but it does not prevent URL redirection attacks. JavaScript
being enabled or disabling cookies is not helpful for this purpose either.
149. A. Vulnerabilities in cloud services require work on the part of the cloud service provider to
remediate them. You can remediate most vulnerabilities in your own infrastructure yourself
without a third party. Vulnerabilities in cloud services and local infrastructure can both be
as severe and take as much time to remediate. Regardless of where your organization stores
its data, your responsibility for it is likely the same!
150. C. Consumer wireless routers provide local administrative access via their default credentials. Although they recommend that you change the password (and sometimes the username for greater security), many installations result in an unsecured administrative account.
The other answers are all common issues but not what is described in the question.
151. A. A red team is a team that tests security by using tools and techniques like an actual
attacker. A blue team is a defender team that protects against attackers (and testers like
red teams!). Purple teams are a combination of red and blue teams intended to leverage
the techniques and tools from both sides to improve organizational security. White teams
oversee cybersecurity contests and judge events between red teams and blue teams.
152. A. Directory traversal attacks attempt to exploit tools that can read directories and files by
moving through the directory structure. The example would try to read the config.txt
file three layers above the working directory of the web application itself. Adding common
directory names or common filenames can allow attackers (or penetration testers) to read
other files in accessible directories if they are not properly secured. The remainder of the
options were made up for this question, although Slashdot is an actual website.
153. A. Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) services are designed to
integrate with a broader range of both internal and external applications. Both security
information and event management (SIEM) and SOAR systems typically include threat and
vulnerability management tools, as well as security operations’ automation capabilities.
154. A. A known environment (white-box) test involves providing extensive information, as
described in this scenario. A known environment test could be internal or external. This
scenario describes the opposite of an unknown environment (black-box) test, which would
involve zero knowledge. Finally, threat test is not a term used in penetration testing.
155. C. The Windows Security Account Manager (SAM) file and the /etc/shadow file for
Linux systems both contain passwords and are popular targets for offline brute-force
attacks.
156. C. An SSL stripping attack requires attackers to persuade a victim to send traffic through
them via HTTP while continuing to send HTTPS encrypted traffic to the legitimate server
by pretending to be the victim. This is not a brute-force attack, a Trojan attack would
require malware, and a downgrade attack would try to move the encrypted session to a less
secure encryption protocol.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

205

157. C. The U.S. Trusted Foundry program is intended to prevent supply chain attacks by
ensuring end-to-end supply chain security for important integrated circuits and electronics.
158. B. Threat maps like those found at threatmap.fortiguard.com and threatmap
.checkpoint.com are visualizations of real-time or near real-time data gathered by vendors and other organizations that can help visualize major threats and aid in analysis of
them. Pie charts may be done in real time via security information and event management
(SIEM) or other systems, but note that no SIEM or other device was mentioned. A dark web
tracker was made up for the question, and OSINT repositories wouldn’t show real-time
data like this.
159. B. Bluesnarfing involves accessing data from a Bluetooth device when it is in range. Bluejacking involves sending unsolicited messages to Bluetooth devices when they are in range.
Evil twin attacks use a rogue access point whose name is similar or identical to that of a
legitimate access point. A RAT is a remote-access Trojan, and nothing in this scenario points
to a RAT being the cause of the stolen data.
160. B. The rules of engagement for a penetration test typically include the type and scope of
testing, client contact information and requirements for when the team should be notified,
sensitive data handling requirements, and details of regular status meetings and reports.
161. C. This command starts a reverse shell connecting to example.com on port 8989 every
hour. If you’re not familiar with cron, you should take a moment to read the basics of
cron commands and what you can do with them—you can read a man page for cron at
manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/focal/man8/cron.8.html.
162. C. The penetration tester leveraged the principle of urgency and also used some elements
of authority by claiming to be a senior member of the organization. They didn’t threaten
or intimidate the help desk staff member and did not make something seem scarce, nor did
they attempt to build trust with the staff member.
163. A. Proprietary, or closed threat, intelligence is threat intelligence that is not openly available. OSINT, or open source threat intelligence, is freely available. ELINT is a military term
for electronic and signals intelligence. Corporate threat intelligence was made up for this
question.
164. B. CompTIA defines “maneuver” in the context of threat hunting as how to think like a
malicious user to help you identify potential indicators of compromise in your environment.
Outside of the Security+ exam, this is not a commonly used term in normal security practice,
although it does make an appearance in military usage. Since this term is not common
outside of the Security+ exam, make sure you understand the CompTIA definition. Intelligence fusion adds multiple intelligence sources together, threat feeds are used to provide
information about threats, and advisories and bulletins are often combined with threat feeds
to understand new attacks, vulnerabilities, and other threat information.
165. B. Script kiddies are the least resourced of the common threat actors listed above. In general, they flow from national state actors as the most highly resourced, to organized crime,
to hacktivists, to inside actors, and then to script kiddies as the least capable and least
resourced actors. As with any scale like this, there is room for some variability between
specific actors, but for the exam, you should track them in that order.
166. B. A SYN flood is a type of resource exhaustion attack and uses up all available sessions on
the system it is aimed at. Although a SYN flood can be a DDoS, no mention was made of
multiple source machines for the attack. No application was mentioned, and a SYN flood
targets the TCP/IP stack on the system rather than an application. No vulnerability was
mentioned, and none is required for a SYN flood, since it simply tries to overwhelm the target’s ability to handle the opened connections. Protections against SYN floods tend to focus
on preventing opened connections from causing resource exhaustion and identifying and
blocking abusive hosts.
167. A. Pretexting is a type of social engineering that involves using a false motive and lying
to obtain information. Here, the penetration tester lied about their role and why they are
calling (impersonation), and then built some trust with the user before asking for personal
information. A watering hole attack leverages a website that the targeted users all use and
places malware on it to achieve their purpose. Prepending is described by CompTIA as
“adding an expression or a phrase,” and shoulder surfing involves looking over an individual’s shoulder or otherwise observing them entering sensitive information like passwords.
168. C. You may be familiar with the term war driving, but war flying is increasingly common
as drones have entered wide use. Although penetration testers are somewhat unlikely to fly
a helicopter or airplane over a target site, inexpensive drones can provide useful insight into
both physical security and wireless network coverage if equipped with the right hardware.
Droning and aerial snooping were made up for this question, and Air Snarf is an old tool
for capturing usernames and passwords on vulnerable wireless networks.
169. C. Many organizations have legacy platforms in place that cannot be patched or upgraded
but that are still an important part of their business. Security professionals are often asked
to suggest ways to secure the systems while leaving them operational. Common options
include moving the devices to an isolated virtual LAN (VLAN), disconnecting the devices
from the network and ensuring they are not plugged back in, and using a firewall or other
security device to ensure that the legacy system is protected from attacks and cannot browse
the Internet or perform other actions that could result in compromise.
170. B. According to the national council of ISACs, information sharing and analysis centers,
“Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) help critical infrastructure owners
and operators protect their facilities, personnel and customers from cyber and physical
security threats and other hazards. ISACs collect, analyze and disseminate actionable
threat information to their members and provide members with tools to mitigate risks and
enhance resiliency.” IRTs are incident response teams, Feedburner is Google’s RSS feed
management tool, and vertical threat feeds is not an industry term.
171. B. TCP port 23 is typically associated with Telnet, an unencrypted remote shell protocol.
Since Telnet sends its authentication and other traffic in the clear (clear/plain text), it should
not be used, and Lucca should identify this as a configuration issue involving an insecure
protocol.
172. B. Privilege escalation attacks focus on gaining additional privileges. In this case, Cameron
used physical access to the system to modify it, allowing him to then conduct a privilege
escalation attack as an unprivileged user. A Trojan would have required a file to act like it
was desirable, a denial-of-service attack would have prevented access to a system or service,

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

207

and swapfiles (or pagefiles) are drive space used to contain the contents of memory when
memory runs low. Swapfiles may contain sensitive data, but the term swapfile attack is not
commonly used.
173. C. Common attributes of threat actors that you should be able to describe and explain
for the Security+ exam include whether they are internal or external threats, their level of
sophistication or capability, their resources or funding, and their intent or motivation. The
number of years of experience is difficult to determine for many threat actors and is not a
direct way to gauge their capabilities, and is therefore not a common attribute that is used
to assess them.
174. B. Although engaging domain experts is often encouraged, requiring third-party review of
proprietary algorithms is not. Many machine learning algorithms are sensitive since they
are part of an organization’s competitive advantage. Ensuring that data is secure and of
sufficient quality, ensuring a secure development environment, and requiring change control
are all common artificial intelligence (AI)/machine learning (ML) security practices.
175. A. White teams act as judges and provide oversight of cybersecurity exercises and competitions. Options B and C may remind you of white- and gray-box tests, but they’re only there
to confuse you. Cybersecurity teams are usually referred to with colors like red, blue, and
purple as the most common colors, as well as the white teams that the Security+ exam outline mentions. Defenders in an exercise are part of the blue team.
176. C. Bug bounties are increasingly common and can be quite lucrative. Bug bounty websites
match vulnerability researchers with organizations that are willing to pay for information
about issues with their software or services. Ransoms are sometimes demanded by attackers,
but this is not a ransom since it was voluntarily paid as part of a reward system. A zeroday disclosure happens when a vulnerability is disclosed and the organization has not been
previously informed and allowed to fix the issue. Finally, you might feel like $10,000 is a
payday, but the term is not used as a technical term and doesn’t appear on the exam.
177. A. Linux privileges can be set numerically, and 777 sets user, group, and world to all have
read, write, and execute access to the entire /etc directory. Setting permissions like this
is a common workaround when permissions aren’t working but can expose data or make
binaries executable by users who should not have access to them. When you set permissions
for a system, remember to set them according to the rule of least privilege: only the permissions that are required for the role or task should be configured.
178. B. Footprinting is the process of gathering information about a computer system or network, and it can involve both active and passive techniques. Mapping, fingerprinting, and
aggregation are not the correct or common terms for this practice.
179. C. When dial-up modems were in heavy use, hackers would conduct war dialing exercises
to call many phone numbers to find modems that would answer. When wireless networks
became the norm, the same type of language was used, leading to terms like war walking,
war driving, and even war flying. The rest of the options were made up, but you should
remember that the Security+ exam expects you to know about war driving and war flying.
180. B. Lighting and utility systems, as well as SCADA, PLCs, CNC, scientific equipment and
similar devices are types of operational technology. Since this is a distributed attack that
results in a denial of service, it is a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack. OT systems
are often isolated or otherwise protected from remote network connections to prevent
this type of attack since many OT devices do not have strong security controls or frequent
updates. A SCADA overflow is not a term used in the industry, but network and application
DDoS attacks do appear on the Security+ exam outline, and you will need to be able to
differentiate them from this type of OT DDoS.
181. C. A false negative occurs with a vulnerability scanning system when a scan is run and an
issue that exists is not identified. This can be because of a configuration option, a firewall,
or other security setting or because the vulnerability scanner is otherwise unable to detect
the issue. A missing vulnerability update might be a concern if the problem did not specifically state that the definitions are fully up-to-date. Unless the vulnerability is so new that
there is no definition, a missing update shouldn’t be the issue. Silent patching refers to a
patching technique that does not show messages to users that a patch is occurring. A false
positive would have caused a vulnerability to show that was not actually there. This sometimes happens when a patch or fix is installed but the application does not change in a way
that shows the change.
182. A. Refactoring a program by automated means can include adding additional text, comments, or nonfunctional operations to make the program have a different signature without
changings its operations. This is typically not a manual operation due to the fact that antimalware tools can quickly find new versions. Instead, refactoring is done via a polymorphic
or code mutation technique that changes the malware every time it is installed to help avoid
signature-based systems.
183. B. Hybrid warfare is a relatively new term that describes the multipronged attacks conducted as part of a military or national strategy of political warfare that uses traditional,
asymmetric, and cyberwarfare techniques along with influence methods to achieve goals.
184. C. This is an example of a hoax. Hoaxes are fake security threats and can consume both
time and resources to combat. User awareness and good habits for validating potential
hoaxes are both useful ways to prevent them from consuming more time and energy than
they should. A phishing attempt would target credentials or other information, no identity
information is mentioned for identity fraud here, and an invoice scam involves a fake or
modified invoice.
185. B. This is an attempt to get the server to send a request to itself as part of an API call, and it
is an example of server-side request forgery. A cross-site scripting attack would use the
victim’s browser rather than a server-side request, as would a CSRF attack.
186. B. Threat hunting can involve a variety of activities such as intelligence fusion, combining
multiple data sources and threat feeds, and reviewing advisories and bulletins to remain
aware of the threat environment for your organization or industry.
187. C. Passwords in memory are often stored in plain text for use. This means that attackers
can recover them if they can access the memory where the password is stored, even if the
storage is ephemeral.
188. D. The AIS service uses STIX and TAXII. STIX and TAXII are open standards that the
Department of Homeland Security started the development of and uses for this type of
effort. You can read more about AIS here: www.us-cert.gov/ais.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

209

189. C. The reconnaissance phase of a penetration test involves gathering information about the
target, including domain information, system information, and details about employees like
phone numbers, names, and email addresses.
190. A. Angela has impersonated an actual employee of the delivery service to gain access to the
company. Company uniforms are a very useful element for in-person social engineering.
Whaling is a type of phishing attack aimed at leaders in an organization. A watering hole
attack deploys malware or other attack tools at a site or sites that a target group frequently
uses. Prepending is vaguely defined by the Security+ exam but can mean a number of things.
When you see prepending on the exam, it should normally mean “adding something to the
front of text.”
191. D. Acquisition via the gray market can lead to lack of vendor support, lack of warranty
coverage, and the inability to validate where the devices came from. Nick should express
concerns about the supply chain, and if his devices need to be from a trusted source or supplier with real support he may need to change his organization’s acquisition practices.
192. B. XML injection is often done by modifying HTTP queries sent to an XML-based web
service. Reviewing web server logs to see what was sent and analyzing them for potential
attacks will help Christina see if unexpected user input is visible in the logs. Syslog, authentication logs, and event logs are unlikely to contain information about web applications that
would show evidence of an XML injection–based attack.
Use the following scenario for questions 193–195.
Frank is the primary IT staff member for a small company and has migrated his company’s
infrastructure from an on-site datacenter to a cloud-based infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
provider. Recently he has been receiving reports that his website is slow to respond and
that it is inaccessible at times. Frank believes that attackers may be conducting a denial-ofservice attack against his organization.
193. C. Frank’s best option is to review the anti-denial-of-service and other security tools that
his cloud hosting provider provides, and to make appropriate use of them. The major infrastructure as a service (IaaS) providers have a variety of security tools that can help both
detect and prevent DoS attacks from taking down sites that are hosted in their infrastructure. Calling the cloud service provider’s ISP will not work because the ISP works with
the cloud provider, not with Frank! It is possible the cloud service provider might be able
to assist Frank, but they are most likely to instruct him to use the existing tools that they
already provide.
194. C. Since Frank is using the cloud service provider’s web services, he will need to review the
logs that they capture. If he has not configured them, he will need to do so, and he will then
need a service or capability to analyze them for the types of traffic he is concerned about.
Syslog and Apache logs are both found on a traditional web host, and they would be appropriate if Frank was running his own web servers in the infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
environment.
195. B. The most useful data is likely to come from an IPS, or intrusion prevention system. He
will be able to determine if the attack is a denial-of-service (DoS) attack, and the IPS may
be able to help him determine the source of the denial-of-service attack. A firewall might
provide some useful information but would only show whether or not traffic was allowed
and would not analyze the traffic for attack information. A vulnerability scanner would
indicate if there was an issue with his application or the server, but it would not identify this
type of attack. Antimalware software can help find malware on the system but isn’t effective
against a DoS attack.
196. D. Contractual terms, auditing, and security reviews are all common means of reducing
third-party risks when working with a vendor that is performing systems integration work.
An SOC (service organization controls) report would typically be requested if you were
going to use a third-party vendor’s datacenter or hosted services.
197. B. Training an artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning (ML) system with tainted data
is a significant concern. Elias needs to ensure that the traffic on his network is typical and
nonmalicious to ensure that the AI does not presume that malicious traffic is normal for his
network.
198. C. The most common motivation for hacktivists is to make a political statement. Reputational gains are often associated with script kiddies, whereas financial gain is most commonly a goal of organized crime or insider threats. Gathering high-value data is typical of
both nation-state actors and organized crime.
199. D. Predictive analysis tools use large volumes of data, including information about security
trends and threats, large security datasets from various security tools and other sources, and
behavior patterns, to predict and identify malicious and suspicious behavior.
200. C. Identity fraud and identity theft commonly use Social Security numbers as part of the
theft of identity. Tailgating involves following a person through a security door or gate so
that you do not have to present credentials or a code, whereas impersonation is a social
engineering technique where you claim to be someone else. Blackmail is a potential answer,
but the most common usage is for identity fraud.
201. A. SOAR tools, like security information and event management (SIEM) tools, are highly
focused on security operations. They include threat and vulnerability management, security
incident response, and security operations and automation tools, but they do not provide
source code analysis and testing tools.
202. B. The Security+ exam outline specifically lists these items as threat vectors. Although there
are many others, you should be familiar with direct access, wireless, email, supply chain,
social media, removable media, and cloud as vectors for the exam.
203. C. Although it may seem strange at first, both SourceForge and GitHub are used to house
sample exploit code as well as other information that threat intelligence analysts may find
useful. They are not part of the dark web, nor are they an automated indicator sharing (AIS)
source or a public information sharing center.
204. B. Trusting rather than validating user input is the root cause of improper input handling.
All input should be considered potentially malicious and thus treated as untrusted. Appropriate filtering, validation, and testing should be performed to ensure that only valid data
input is accepted and processed.

Chapter 1: Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities

211

205. C. The code is an example of a PowerShell script that downloads a file into memory. You
can rule out the upload options by reading the script since it mentions a download in the
script example. Since we see a string being downloaded, rather than a file and location, you
may be able to guess that this is a fileless malware example.
206. C. Session IDs should be unique for distinct users and systems. A very basic type of session
replay attack involves providing a victim with a session ID and then using that session ID
once they have used the link and authenticated themselves. Protections such as session timeouts and encrypting session data, as well as encoding the source IP, hostname, or other identifying information in the session key, can all help prevent session replay attacks.
207. B. The Security+ exam outline lists seven major impact categories, including data loss, data
breaches, and data exfiltration. Data modification is not listed, but it is a concern as part of
the integrity leg of the CIA triad.
208. C. Academic journals are the slowest of the items listed because of the review processes
involved with most reputable journals. Although academic journals can be useful resources,
they are typically not up-to-the-minute sources. Other resources you should be aware of are
vendor websites, conferences, social media, and RFCs (requests for comments).
209. C. Vulnerability scans and port scans can often be detected in logs by looking for a series
of ports being connected to. In this case, the log was created by scanning a system with an
OpenVAS scanner. There is no indication of a successful login or other hacking attempt,
and a service startup would show in the messages log, not the auth log. A reboot would also
show in the messages log rather than the auth log.
210. C. Although it may be tempting to immediately upgrade, reading and understanding the
CVEs for a vulnerability is a good best practice. Once Charles understands the issue, he can
then remediate it based on the recommendations for that specific problem. Disabling PHP
or the web server would break the service, and in this case, only newer versions of PHP than
5.4 have the patch Charles needs.
211. D. Although 80 and 443 are the most common HTTP ports, it is common practice to run
additional web servers on port 8080 when a nonstandard port is needed. SSH would be
expected to be on port 22, RDP on 3389, and MySQL on 3306.
212. B. Once this issue is remediated, Rick should investigate why the system was running a
plug-in from 2007. In many cases, when you discover a vulnerable component like this it
indicates a deeper issue that exists in the organization or processes for system and application maintenance. Installing a web application firewall (WAF) or reviewing intrusion
prevention system (IPS) logs may be useful if Rick thinks there are ongoing attacks or
that successful attacks have occurred, but the problem does not state anything about that.
There is no indication of compromise, merely a completely outdated plug-in version in the
problem. If you want a sample system with vulnerable plug-ins like this to test, you can
download the 2015 release of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) broken
web applications virtual machine. It has a wide range of completely out-of-date applications
and services to practice against.
213. C. A network device running SSH and a web server on TCP port 443 is a very typical discovery when running a vulnerability scan. Without any demonstrated issues, Carolyn should
simply note that she saw those services. Telnet runs on port 21, an unencrypted web server
will run on TCP 80 in most cases, and Windows fileshares use a variety of ports including
TCP ports 135–139 and 445.
214. B. Configuration reviews, either using automated tool or manual validation, can be a useful proactive way to ensure that unnecessary ports and services are not accessible. Configuration management tools can also help ensure that expected configurations are in place.
Neither passive nor active network packet capture will show services that are not accessed,
meaning that open ports could be missed, and log review won’t show all open ports either.
215. C. Errors are considered a vulnerability because they often provide additional details about
the system or its configuration. They typically cannot be used to directly exploit or crash the
system.
216. D. This appears to be a situation where your network’s DNS server is compromised and
sending people to a fake site. A Trojan horse is malware tied to a legitimate program. IP
spoofing would be using a fake IP address, but that is not described in this scenario. In
fact, the users are not even typing in IP addresses—they are typing in URLs. Clickjacking
involves tricking users into clicking something other than what they intended.
217. C. This is a classic example of typo squatting. The website is off by only one or two letters;
the attacker hopes that users of the real website mistype the URL and are taken to their fake
website. Session hijacking is taking over an authenticated session. Cross-site request forgery
sends fake requests to a website that purport to be from a trusted, authenticated user. Clickjacking attempts to trick users into clicking on something other than what they intended.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design
1.

C. The diagram shows services and ports, but it does not list the protocol. Ben should ask
if these are TCP- or UDP-based services, since an incorrect guess would result in a nonfunctional service, and opening up unnecessary protocols may inadvertently create exposures
or risks. The subnet mask is shown where multiple systems in a network on the client side
require it, the service name isn’t necessary for a firewall rule, and API keys should not be
stored in documents like this.

2.

A. The correct answer is the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). It is the de
facto standard for web application security.
The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) is concerned with electrical
power plant security, Trusted Foundry is a term used to describe a secure supply chain for
computer ICs, and ISA/IEC standards are for securing industrial automation and control
systems (IACSs).

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

213

3.

B. Vendor diversity gives two security benefits. The first is that there is no single point of
failure should one vendor cease operations. The second benefit is that each vendor has a
specific methodology and algorithms used for detecting malware. If you use the same vendor
at all points where you need malware detection, any flaw or weakness in that vendor’s methodology will persist across the network. Using a single vendor means that any weakness
in that vendor’s methodology or technology could impact the entire system or network.
Vendor forking is not a term in the industry, and this is not a neutral act; vendor diversity
improves security.

4.

B. In this scenario, the best fit to Scott’s needs is a second network attached storage (NAS)
device with a full copy of the primary NAS. In a failure scenario, the secondary NAS can
simply take the place of the primary NAS while individual disks or even the whole NAS
is replaced. Tape-based backups take longer to restore, regardless of whether they are full
or incremental backups, although incremental backups can take more time in some cases
since swapping tapes in order can add time to the restoration process. Finally, a cloud-based
backup system would be useful if Scott was worried about a local disaster but would be
slower than a local identical NAS, thus not meeting Scott’s primary requirement.

5.

C. Restoration order can be very important in a complex environment due to system dependencies. Restoration order can also ensure that the proper security controls are in place
before systems are online. A datacenter should be able to handle systems coming online
without failing if its power systems are properly designed. A second outage due to failed systems would mean that Yasmine has not determined why the outage has occurred, making restoration potentially dangerous or problematic. Finally, fire suppression systems should only
activate for an actual fire or when fire precursors like smoke are detected, not for increased
heat load.

6.

B. Air gapping refers to the server not being on a network. This means literally that there is
“air” between the server and the network. This prevents malware from infecting the backup
server. A separate VLAN or physical network segment can enhance security but is not as
effective as air gapping. A honeynet is used to detect attacks against a network, but it doesn’t
provide effective defense against malware in this scenario.

7.

C. Windows picture passwords require you to click on specific locations on a picture. This
is an example of a something-you-can-do factor. Geolocation or a network location are
examples of somewhere you are, whereas something you exhibit is often a personality trait,
and someone you know is exactly what it sounds like: someone who can identify you as an
individual.

8.

C. Hash functions convert variable-length inputs into fixed-length outputs while minimizing
the changes of multiple inputs, resulting in the same output (collisions). They also need to be
fast to compute. Hashes should not be reversible; they are a one-way function!

9.

B. The most common way to ensure that third-party secure destruction companies perform
their tasks properly is to sign a contract with appropriate language and make sure that they
certify the destruction of the materials they are asked to destroy. Manual on-site inspection
by third parties is sometimes done as part of certification, but federal certification is not a
common process. Requiring pictures of every destroyed document would create a new copy,
thus making it a flawed process.
10. A. Using both server-side execution and validation requires more resources but prevents
client-side tampering with the application and data. For Olivia’s described needs, server-side
execution and validation is the best option.
11. D. An Arduino is a microcontroller well suited for custom development of embedded systems. They are small, inexpensive, and commonly available. Unlike a Raspberry Pi, they are
not a small computer, reducing their overall risk of compromise. A custom field-programmable gate array (FPGA) will typically be more complex and expensive than an Arduino,
whereas a repurposed desktop PC introduces all the potential issues that a PC can include
such as a vulnerable operating system or software.
12. D. Digital signatures are created using the signer’s private key, allowing it to be validated
using their public key.
13. C. Adding one bit to a key doubles the work required. The original effort would have 2128
potential solutions, whereas the increased key length would require 2129. In real life, key
lengths aren’t increased by 1; instead, they are typically increased by factors of 2, such as 128
to 265, or 1024 to 2048.
14. C. Key stretching is used to improve weak keys. One way of implementing it is by repeatedly
using a hash function or a block cipher, increasing the effort that an attacker would need to
exert to attack the resulting hashed or encrypted data. The rest of the options were made up.
15. A. A salt is a value added to a string before it is hashed. The salt is stored so that it can be
added to passwords when they are used in the future to compare to the hash. Since each salt
is unique, this means that an attacker would need to generate a unique rainbow table for
every salt to be able to attack the stored hashes effectively. For high-value passwords, this
may be worthwhile, but for bulk lists of passwords, it is not a reasonable attack method.
16. C. Ian will use Michelle’s public key to encrypt the message so that only she can read it using
her private key. If he wanted to sign the message, he could use his private key, and Michelle
could use his public key to validate his signature. Neither Ian nor Michelle should ever reveal
their private keys.
17. A. Elliptical curve cryptography (ECC) is faster because it can use a smaller key length to
achieve levels of security similar to a longer RSA key (a 228-bit elliptical curve key is roughly
equivalent to a 2,380-bit RSA key). Using the same key to encrypt and decrypt would be true
for a symmetric encryption cryptosystem; however, neither of these are symmetric. Either
algorithm can run on older processors given the right cryptographic libraries or
programming, although both will be slower. Both can be used for digital signatures.
18. A. Perfect forward secrecy (PFS) is used to change keys used to encrypt and decrypt data,
ensuring that even if a compromise occurs, only a very small amount of data will be exposed.
Symmetric encryption uses a single key. Quantum key rotation and Diffie-Hellman key modulation are both terms made up for this question.
19. A. Checking a visitor’s ID against their log book entry can ensure that the information they
have recorded is correct and that the person’s ID matches who they claim to be. Biometric
scans only work on enrolled individuals, meaning that many guests may not have biometric
data enrolled. Two-person integrity control would only be useful if there was a concern that

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

215

a guard was allowing unauthorized individuals into the facility. A security robot typically
cannot validate a visitor’s identity from an ID and log entry. This may change as they become
more advanced!
20. D. Honeypots are designed to attract a hacker by appearing to be security holes that are ripe
and ready for exploitation. A honeynet is a network honeypot. This security technique is used
to observe hackers in action while not exposing vital network resources. An intrusion detection system (IDS) is used to detect activity that could indicate an intrusion or attack. Neither
active detection nor false subnet is a common industry term.
21. C. SCADA, or Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition systems, are commonly used to
manage facilities like power plants. The rest of the options were made up.
22. D. Prime factorization algorithms and elliptic curve cryptography are believed to be vulnerable to future quantum computing–driven attacks against cryptographic systems. Although
this is largely theoretical at the moment, quantum encryption may be the only reasonable
response to quantum attacks against current cryptographic algorithms and systems.
23. C. Geoff is looking for a warm site, which has some or all of the infrastructure and systems
he needs but does not have data. If a disaster occurs, Geoff can bring any equipment that he
needs or wants to the site along with his organization’s data to resume operations. A hot site
is a fully functional environment with all the hardware, software, and data needed to operate
an organization. They are expensive to maintain and run but are used by organizations that
cannot take the risk of downtime. A cold site is a location that can be brought online but
does not have systems; cold sites typically have access to power and bandwidth but need to
be fully equipped to operate after a disaster since they are just rented space. An RTO is a
recovery time objective, and it measures how long it should take to resume operations; it is
not a type of disaster recovery site.
24. B. If Olivia wants to ensure that third parties will be unable to modify the operating system
for Internet of Things (IoT) devices, requiring signed and encrypted firmware for operating
system updates is an effective means of stopping all but the most advanced threats. Setting a
default password means that a common password will be known. Checking the MD5sum for
new firmware versions will help administrators validate that the firmware is legitimate, but
signed and encrypted firmware is a much stronger control. Finally, regular patching may help
secure the devices but won’t prevent OS modifications.
25. B. After quantum encryption and decryption technologies become mainstream, it is generally
believed that nonquantum cryptosystems will be defeated with relative ease, meaning that
quantum cryptography will be required to be secure. Qubits are quantum bits, not a measure
of speed; quantum encryption will be the relevant solution in a post-quantum encryption
world; and even very long RSA keys are expected to be vulnerable.
26. B. Counter mode (CTR) makes a block cipher into a stream cipher by generating a keystream block using a nonrepeating sequence to fill in the blocks. This allows data to be
streamed instead of waiting for blocks to be ready to send. It does not perform the reverse,
turning a stream cipher into a block cipher, nor does it reverse the encryption process
(decryption). Public keys cannot unlock private keys; they are both part of an asymmetric
encryption process.
27. D. Blockchain public ledgers contain an identity for participants (although the identity
may be semi-anonymous), the transaction record, and the balance or other data that the
blockchain is used to store. Since there is no central authority, there is no token to identify
authorities.
28. C. A test server should be identical to the production server. This can be used for functional
testing as well as security testing, before deploying the application. The production server is
the live server. A development server would be one the programmers use during development
of a web application, and predeployment server is not a term typically used in the industry.
29. C. Staging environments, sometimes called preproduction environments, are typically used
for final quality assurance (QA) and validation before code enters the production environment as part of a deployment pipeline. Staging environments closely mirror production,
allowing realistic testing and validation to be done. Development and test environments are
used to create the code and for testing while it is being developed.
30. C. Application programming interface (API) keys are frequently used to meet this need.
An API key can be issued to an individual or organization, and then use of the API can be
tracked to each API key. If the API key is compromised or abused, it can be revoked and a
new API key can be issued. Firewall rules written to use public IP addresses can be fragile,
since IP addresses may change or organizations may have a broad range of addresses that
may be in use, making it hard to validate which systems or users are using the API. Credentials, including passwords, are not as frequently used as API keys.
31. D. Embedded systems like smart meters typically do not include a SQL server to attack,
making SQL injection an unlikely issue. Derek should focus on securing the traffic from
his meter, ensuring that denial-of-service (DoS) attacks are difficult to accomplish and that
remotely disconnecting the meter using exposed administrative interfaces or other methods is
prevented.
32. A. Honeypots are systems configured to appear to be vulnerable. Once an attacker accesses
them, they capture data and tools while causing the attacker to think that they are successfully gaining control of the system. This allows defenders like Selah to study and analyze
their techniques and tools without endangering their production systems. An intrusion detection system (IDS) or intrusion protection system (IPS) can detect and stop attacks, and may
even capture some tools, but they are not designed to capture local commands and downloaded tools. A WAF is a web application firewall and is intended to stop attacks on web
applications.
33. D. Honeynets are intentionally vulnerable networks set up to allow for capture and analysis
of attacker techniques and tools. A black hole is a term commonly used for a system or network device where traffic is discarded, and black hole routing involves sending traffic to a
null route that goes nowhere.
34. B. Maria should implement ongoing auditing of the account usage on the SCADA system.
This will provide a warning that someone’s account is being used when they are not actually
using it. Host-based antivirus is almost never a bad idea, but this scenario did not indicate
that the compromise was due to malware, so antimalware may not address the threat. Since
the engineer has access to the SCADA system, a network intrusion prevention system (NIPS)

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

217

is unlikely to block them from accessing the system, and full-disk encryption (FDE) will not
mitigate this threat because the system is live and running, meaning that the disk will be
decrypted in use.
35. B. Both Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) and Data Encryption Standard (DES) are
block ciphers. That means that they encrypt groups (blocks) of plain-text symbols together as
a single block. If you know that either AES or DES is a block cipher, you can eliminate half
of the options here. If you know that a block cipher works on groups of symbols or blocks of
text, you can also eliminate half the options as incorrect.
36. A. A hardware security module (HSM) is the most secure way to store private keys for the
e-commerce server. An HSM is a physical device that safeguards and manages digital keys.
Full-disk encryption (FDE) will protect the data on the e-commerce server, but it won’t
help store the key. It is also difficult to fully encrypt the e-commerce server drive, since the
drive will need to be in use for the e-commerce to function. A self-encrypting drive (SED) is
merely automatic full-disk encryption. Software-defined networking (SDN) won’t address the
issues in this scenario, since it configures networks via software and does not provide secure
key storage.
37. B. Transit gateways are a transit hub used to connect VPCs (virtual private clouds) to onpremises networks. You can read more about transit gateways at docs.aws.amazon.com/
vpc/latest/tgw/what-is-transit-gateway.html. IBM uses the same term, but for
a very specific internal cloud connection.
38. C. You should implement a staging server so that code can be deployed to an intermediate
staging environment. This will allow testing of security features, as well as checking to see
that the code integrates with the entire system. Using third-party libraries and software
development kits (SDKs) can help reduce errors and vulnerabilities in the code. Sandboxing is
used to isolate a particular environment, and virtualization will not mitigate this risk. Even if
the production server is virtualized, the risks are the same. Finally, deployment policies are a
good idea, but they are not the most effective way to mitigate this particular risk.
39. C. Ian should be concerned that attackers might be able to redirect short message service
(SMS) messages sent to VoIP phones. This potential issue is one reason that some multifactor
deployments do not allow SMS messages to be sent to VoIP phones in the environment, and
some organizations do not allow SMS as an option, instead requiring hardware tokens or
application-based multifactor authentication. Vishing is a type of phishing done via voice,
voicemail hijacking would redirect voicemail to another mailbox by forwarding calls, and
weak multifactor code injection was made up for this question.
40. A. Baseline configurations, per NIST 800-53: “Baseline configurations serve as a basis
for future builds, releases, and/or changes to information systems. Baseline configurations
include information about information system components (e.g., standard software packages
installed on workstations, notebook computers, servers, network components, or mobile
devices; current version numbers and patch information on operating systems and applications; and configuration settings/parameters), network topology, and the logical placement
of those components within the system architecture. Maintaining baseline configurations
requires creating new baselines as organizational information systems change over time.
Baseline configurations of information systems reflect the current enterprise architecture.”
41. B. HVAC systems are an important part of the availability for systems and infrastructure.
They are also a target for attackers who target Internet of Things (IoT) or network-connected
devices. They are not frequent targets for use in social engineering efforts, although they
could be used that way. They are not a primary line of defense for organizations.
42. B. Symmetric encryption is typically faster than asymmetric encryption. This is why many
protocols use asymmetric encryption to exchange a symmetric key, and then use that key for
the rest of their transaction. It is not more secure, key length is not a meaningful difference
between symmetric and asymmetric encryption, and key distribution for symmetric encryption is more challenging for larger populations using symmetric encryption if confidentiality
needs to be maintained because every potential pair of communicators would need a different
symmetric key.
43. C. Entropy is a measure of uncertainty. Having sources of entropy (or randomness) is a key
element in a PRNG. Some pseudo-random number generators rely on input from keyboards,
mice, or other human-generated inputs to have a source of entropy data.
44. A. With the software as a service (SaaS) model, the consumer has the ability to use applications provided by the cloud provider over the Internet. SaaS is a subscription service where
software is licensed on a subscription basis. Platform as a service (PaaS) provides the framework and underlying tools to build applications and services. Infrastructure as a service
(IaaS) provides the components of an entire network and systems infrastructure. Hybrid
models use both cloud and locally hosted systems.
45. C. Resource policies are associated with a resource and allow you to determine which
principals have access to that resource as well as what actions they can take on it. Resource
policies are not used to set consumption limits.
46. D. Storage area network (SAN) replication copies the contents of one repository to another
repository, such as an organization’s central SAN environment to a remote SAN at the
hardware or block level.
47. C. A snapshot is an image of the virtual machine (VM) at some point in time. It is standard
practice to periodically take a snapshot of a virtual system so that you can return that system
to a last known good state. Sandboxing is the process of isolating a system or software.
The hypervisor is the mechanism through which the virtual environment interacts with the
hardware, and elasticity is the ability for the system to scale.
48. D. RAID level 5 is disk striping with distributed parity. It can withstand the loss of any single
disk. RAID 0 is disk striping; it does not provide any fault tolerance. RAID 1 is mirroring. It
does protect against the loss of a single disk but not with distributed parity. RAID 3 is disk
striping with dedicated parity. This means a dedicated drive containing all the parity bits.
49. D. A Faraday cage, named after physicist Michael Faraday, involves placing wire mesh
around an area or device to block electromagnetic signals. A VLAN can segment a network
but won’t block electromagnetic interference (EMI). Software-defined networking (SDN)
virtualizes a network but does not protect against EMI. A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is
used for cryptographic applications.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

219

50. B. The correct answer is bollards. These are large objects, often made of concrete or similar material, designed specifically to prevent a vehicle getting past them. Most gates can be
breached with a vehicle. A security guard is a good idea, but they would not be able to stop
a vehicle from ramming the building. Security cameras will provide evidence of a crime that
was committed but won’t prevent the crime.
51. A. Attaching cable locks to the computers and locking them to the table will make it more
difficult for someone to steal a computer. Full-disk encryption (FDE) won’t stop someone
from stealing the computer, nor will strong passwords. A sign-in sheet is a good idea and may
deter some thefts, but it is not the best approach to stopping theft offered in this scenario.
52. B. The correct answer is to incorporate two-factor authentication with a mantrap. By having
a smartcard at one door (type II authentication) and a PIN number (type I authentication) at
the other door, Joanne will combine strong two-factor authentication with physical security.
Smartcards by themselves, or paired with a fence, are still single-factor authentication. Video
surveillance, though often a good idea, won’t help with two-factor authentication.
53. A. Baselining is the process of establishing a standard for security. A change from the original
baseline configuration is referred to as baseline deviation. Security evaluations or audits
check security but don’t establish security standards. Hardening is the process of securing
a given system, but it does not establish security standards. Normalization is the process of
removing redundant entries from a database.
54. A. Fake telemetry is telemetry created to make an attacker believe that a honeypot system
is a legitimate system. Building a believable honeypot requires making the system as realistic
as possible. Deepfakes are artificial intelligence (AI)-created videos that make it appear that
individuals are saying or doing actions they never actually performed. The rest of the options
were made up for this question.
55. A. RAID 1+0, or RAID 10, is a mirrored data set (RAID 1), which is then striped (RAID 0):
a “stripe of mirrors.” RAID 6 is disk striping with dual parity (distributed), RAID 0 is just
striping, and RAID 1 is just mirroring.
56. D. Normalization is the process of removing duplication or redundant data from a database.
There are typically four levels of normalization ranging from 1N at the lowest (i.e., the most
duplication) to 4N at the highest (i.e., the least duplication). Although database integrity
is important, that is not what is described in the question. Furthermore, integrity checking
usually refers to checking the integrity of files. Deprovisioning is a virtualization term for
removing a virtual system (server, workstation, etc.) and reclaiming those resources, and in
the context of identity management means removing an account or permissions. Baselining
involves setting security standards.
57. C. Remote Authentication Dial-in User Service (RADIUS) provides authentication, authorization, and accounting, which make up the three critical elements in AAA systems. OpenID
is a protocol for authentication but does not provide authorization by itself. Lightweight
Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) is a directory service, and Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is a markup language for making security assertions.
58. D. TLS inspection (often called SSL inspection because the term SSL remains widely, if incorrectly, in use) involves intercepting encrypted traffic between the client and server. TLS interception devices act as an on-path attack and decrypt traffic to scan and analyze it, often for
malware or other signs of attacks, and then encrypt it to send it on to its destination. As you
might expect, TLS inspection has both legitimate and malicious uses.
59. D. In most cases none of these options are practical. Destruction of drones is an illegal
destruction of private property. Jamming the open frequencies used for drones is not permissible and may result in action by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and contacting
the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to request that the airspace above a company
be declared a no-fly zone is not something the FAA supports in most cases. This means that
Diana is likely to have to deal with the potential for drone-based threats in other ways.
60. B. Isaac has built and configured a system where nonpersistence of systems can create
forensic challenges. His organization needs to consider how they can make copies of compromised or problematic ephemeral systems and store them in a safe location for forensic
analysis. This is not a forensic-resistant system—if he had a copy, he would have been able to
analyze it. Live-boot media is not mentioned or used in this example, and terminate and stay
resident (TSR) is a type of program run in the DOS operating system that returned control to
the operating system but remained in memory so that it could be easily run again as needed.
61. D. Stored procedures are the best way to have standardized SQL. Rather than programmers
writing their own SQL commands, they simply call the stored procedures that the database
administrator creates. Formal code inspection might detect a lack of security practices and
defenses but won’t stop SQL-based attacks. Policies requiring stored procedures might help
but are a less direct path to the solution. Finally, agile programming is a method for developing applications rapidly and won’t determine how SQL commands are created.
62. C. Services integration in cloud and virtualization environments can be very complex and
can involve data, APIs, and other types of application integration. Integration platforms
allow organizations to use a standardized tool rather than building and maintaining their
own. This allows them to focus on the actual integrations rather than the underlying system,
saving time and effort. Since integration platforms also often have preexisting tools for
common services and APIs, they can save significant amounts of time for organizations that
adopt them. Of course, this also introduces another platform to assess and secure.
63. B. When virtualization reaches the point that IT can no longer effectively manage it, the
condition is known as VM sprawl. VM overload and VM spread are made up for this
question, and a VM zombie is a term for a virtual machine that is running and consuming
resources but no longer has a purpose.
64. A. VM escape is a situation wherein an attacker is able to go through the VM to interact
directly with the hypervisor and potentially the host operating system. The best way to prevent this is to limit the ability of the host and the VM to share resources. If possible, they
should not share any resources. Patching might mitigate the situation, but it is not the most
effective solution. Using firewalls and antimalware tools is a good security practice but would
have minimal effect on mitigating VM escape.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

221

65. A. Irene is looking for a software-as-a-service (SaaS) tool that allows her to perform the
specific function that her organization needs to accomplish. An SaaS service does not
require system administration or programming and typically requires minimal configuration to perform its normal functionality. Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) typically requires some
configuration or programming, and infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) will require systems
administration, programming, or configuration—or all three! Identity-as-a-service (IDaaS) is
a specific type of solution that was not described as part of Irene’s needs.
66. D. Serverless architectures do not require a system administrator because the provider manages the underlying function-as-a-service (FaaS) capability. It can also scale up or scale down
as needed, allowing it to be very flexible. Serverless architectures are typically not ideal for
complex applications and instead tend to work better for microservices.
67. A. The correct answer is to have a motion-activated camera that records everyone who
enters the server room. Motion recognition is an important feature in this type of scenario,
where cameras operate in a space where there is little physical traffic and storage would
be wasted by recording empty, unused spaces. Smartcards, deadbolts, and logging won’t
detect theft.
68. C. A Domain Name System (DNS) sinkhole is a DNS server used to spoof DNS servers that
would normally resolve an unwanted to malicious hostname. Traffic can be sent to a legitimate system, causing warnings to appear on the user’s screen, or simply sent to a null route
or nonexistent system. An intrusion detection system (IDS) cannot stop traffic, round-robin
DNS is a way to spread DNS traffic, and a WAF is a web application firewall, and nothing in
this question indicates that there is a web-specific issue.
69. C. Hot aisle/cold aisle is a layout design for server racks and other computing equipment in
a datacenter. The goal of a hot aisle/cold aisle configuration is to conserve energy and lower
cooling costs by managing airflow. An infrared camera will detect heat levels on the aisles.
Although the rest of the options are potential issues for a datacenter, an infrared camera
won’t help with them.
70. D. A security guard is the most effective way to prevent unauthorized access to a building.
Options A, B, and C are all incorrect. These are all good physical security measures, but they
are not the most effective ways to prevent entry into a building.
71. B. Software-defined networking (SDN) makes the network very scalable. It is relatively easy
to add on new resources or remove unneeded resources, and it helps with high availability
efforts. SDN does not stop malware, detect intrusions, or prevent session hijacking.
72. A. The correct answer is to use an application container to isolate that application from the
host operating system. Application containers provide a virtualized environment in which to
run an application. Moving to software-defined networking (SDN) is a very involved
process and does not provide an efficient solution. Running the application in a separate
VLAN will not separate the application from the host operating system; it might not solve
the problem. Since this is a legacy application, insisting on an updated version of the
application isn’t feasible.
73. D. Each of the options above is a potential risk when using third-party libraries or SDKs.
Organizations need to understand and assess the risks of third-party code, but it is a
common practice to use third-party libraries. Identifying trustworthy and reliable sources and
managing the versions and updates are critical to using third-party components safely.
74. B. A cloud access security broker (CASB) is used to monitor cloud activity and usage and to
enforce security policies on users of cloud services.
75. A. Microservice architectures build applications as a set of loosely coupled services that provide specific functions using lightweight protocols. It doesn’t specifically define the size of the
systems, but it is not a tightly coupled environment. Protocol choice is often open standardsbased, but the emphasis is on lightweight protocols. There is not a requirement that services
be in-house or third party exclusively.
76. C. The correct answer is to implement IaC. Infrastructure as code (IaC) is the process of
managing and provisioning computer datacenters through machine-readable definition files,
rather than physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools. Whether the
datacenter(s) use physical machines or virtual machines, this is an effective way to manage
the datacenters. Although datacenter managers may be needed, that won’t necessarily provide consistent management across the enterprise. Software-defined networking (SDN) will
not fix this problem, but it would help if she needed to configure and manage her network
based on usage and performance. Finally, this issue is not just about provisioning; it is about
management.
77. D. OAuth is a common authorization service used for cloud services. It allows users to decide
which websites or applications to entrust their information to without requiring them to
give them the user’s password. OpenID is frequently paired with OAuth as the authentication layer. Kerberos is more frequently used for on-site authentication, and SAML is Security
Assertion Markup Language.
78. C. In this scenario Greg should identify the use of the printers for further attacks against the
organization as the most critical risk. Use as part of a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS)
attack does not directly impact the organization in most cases, exhausting supplies would be
an annoyance, and the risk of scanning documents from a remote location requires sensitive
documents to be left in the MFPs. Greg should note that all of these issues could be problems
and move the MFPs to a protected network so that third parties can’t access them.
79. D. The systems that Keith has deployed are thin clients, computers that do not run their
applications and storage from their local drives and instead rely on a remote server. Cloud
and virtualization implementations of this providing virtual desktops are called VDI, or
Virtual Desktop Infrastructure, but do not necessarily require a thin client, since they can
work on a fully capable computer (or thick client). Client-as-a-server is a made-up term.
80. B. This real-world example was found in 2020 when malicious PowerShell code was discovered that triple-encoded malicious tools. The initial package was downloaded as an image
from imgur.com or similar sites and was concealed using steganographic techniques. The
code was also encrypted using RSA and encoded in Base64 both prior to encryption and
again after encryption. Although steganography is not incredibly common, Henry should
suspect that a downloaded image may be more than it appears.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

223

81. A. Storing data in plain text will not help prevent data exposure and, in fact, is more
likely to result in data exposure. Instead, Molly should encourage her developers to store
and transmit sensitive data in an encrypted form. They should also leverage HTTPS for all
authenticated pages, and potentially all pages. Hashing passwords using salts is important for
password security, and ensuring that tokens are not exposed via sites like GitHub or other
public code repositories is important for application and data security.
82. C. Using secure firmware, as well as using an RTOS with time and space partitioning, are
both common methods to help ensure RTOS security. Unlike traditional operating systems,
real-time operating systems are used in applications where they need to deal with inputs
immediately. That means that adding additional load like firewalls and antimalware is not a
typical component in RTOS applications. For similar reasons, you’re unlikely to find a web
browser on most devices running an RTOS.
83. B. In a code reuse attack, the attacker executes code that is meant for some other purposes.
In many cases this can be old code that is no longer even used (dead code), even if that code
is in a third-party library. A buffer overflow occurs when too much data is sent to a buffer.
For example, say a buffer is designed to hold 10 bytes, and it is sent 100 bytes, causing
the additional data to be put into unexpected memory locations. A denial-of-service (DoS)
attack is meant to make a service or system unavailable to legitimate users. Session hijacking
involves taking over an existing authenticated session.
84. C. Zigbee is specifically designed for this type of usage. Narrowband radios are not typically
in use for this type of purpose, and baseband radio requires very large antennas to use the
low-frequency spectrum. Cellular options require a carrier and are not well suited to direct
peer-to-peer configurations.
85. B. Homomorphic encryption can perform computations on the ciphertext without access
to the private key that the ciphertext was encrypted with. When the computations are
completed, the results are the same as if those computations had been performed against
the original plain text. Identity-preserving and replicable encryption were made up for
this question.
86. A. Fingerprint reader systems are the most widely accepted biometric systems in common
use for entry access and other purposes today. Facial recognition systems are increasingly in
use and are also likely to be more accepted by user populations based on their broad deployment in phones, but they are not listed as an option. Both retina and iris scans are less likely
to be accepted, whereas voice systems are both relatively uncommon and more disruptive for
frequent usage.
87. C. Tape backups are the most common solution for cold backups off-site. Cloud backups to
a cold repository are increasingly popular options and may be faster for some retrieval scenarios, but they are not listed as options. Storage area network (SAN) and network-attached
storage (NAS) devices are not commonly used for cold backup and are instead used for
online or nearline options. Disk backup could be used but remains less common than tape
for a true cold backup scenario.
88. B. Off-site storage has to balance availability and the ability to be used in the event that a
disaster or other event occurs. In this case, Allan should look at a facility far enough away
that a single disaster cannot take both sites offline.
89. D. Embedded systems can bring a broad range of security implications, many of which are
driven by the limited capabilities of the processors and hardware they are frequently built
with. Low-power consumption designs may lack computational power and thus have challenges implementing strong cryptography, network connectivity, and other similar problems.
Patching embedded systems can be challenging both because of where they are deployed and
because of a lack of connectivity for them—in fact, in many environments, you may not want
the devices to be connected to your network. Since many don’t have a screen, keyboard, or a
network connection, authentication is also a problem. Few embedded devices, however, need
bulk storage, making the lack of bulk storage a problem that typically isn’t a major concern.
90. B. System on a chip (SoC) devices are complete self-contained systems on a single chip.
Therefore, having their own unique cryptographic keys is the best way to implement authentication and security. Option A is incorrect. A system on a chip is self-contained, so a Trusted
Platform Module (TPM) would not be an appropriate solution. Option C is incorrect. A selfencrypting drive (SED) is not relevant to system on a chip, since that system does not have a
“drive.” Option D is incorrect. Many SoC technologies don’t use a BIOS.
91. A. Such systems need to have all communications encrypted. As of the current date, breaches
of portable network devices have all involved unencrypted communications. Option B
is incorrect. Full-disk encryption (FDE) may or may not even be appropriate for such
devices. Many don’t have a disk to encrypt. Option C is incorrect. It may not be possible
to install antimalware on many such devices. Option D is incorrect. Fuzz testing is used for
applications.
92. D. The more vehicles utilize computers and have network communication capabilities, the
more they will be vulnerable to cyberattacks. Options A, B, and C are all incorrect, as all of
these are concerns rather than just one.
93. A. An advantage of compiling software is that you can perform static code analysis. That
means Amanda can review the source code for flaws and could even remediate flaws if they
were found. Both binaries and compiled code can be tested in a live environment (dynamic
analysis), and checksums for both can be validated.
94. A. RFCs, or requests for comment, are how Internet protocols are defined and documented.
Wikipedia is not the definitive resource, and the Internet Archive actively archives the Internet but does not define protocols.
95. C. Standard naming conventions typically do not help to conceal systems from attackers.
Attackers can still scan for systems and may even be able to use the naming convention to
identify the purpose of a system if the naming convention includes a purpose or technology
in the name. Naming conventions do make standardization easier and can help administrators quickly identify what a machine does, while making it simpler to include systems in
scripts. A machine that doesn’t match is likely to be a rogue or misconfigured.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

225

96. B. This is an example of a continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipeline.
There is no mention of monitoring systems, and although code analysis is happening here
in testing, it is dynamic testing, not source code analysis. There is no mention of malware in
the pipeline.
97. D. Although gait analysis is not commonly used for identification and authorization purposes, it is used in situations where crowd footage is available to identify individuals. Vein,
voiceprint, and fingerprint analysis are not useful in most scenarios involving heavily used
and crowded spaces.
98. C. A community cloud presents a compromise solution. Community clouds are semi-private.
They are not accessible to the general public but only to a small community of specific
entities. There are risks with public clouds, as there are with any environment. Private clouds
can be quite expensive to build out, particularly for smaller organizations that cannot afford
staffing or hardware. Finally, recommending against a cloud solution does not match the
company’s stated goal.
99. D. Using infrastructure as a service (IaaS) makes the most sense here; it meets the cloud
requirement described and would allow additional systems to be quickly created or
removed as needed. Platform as a service (PaaS) does not provide direct access to Linux systems to build out applications and related configuration. Setting up dual boot and building
machines are not cloud solutions as described. When you answer questions like this, make
sure you read and meet all the requirements in the question.
100. A. One of the dangers of automation and scripting is that the scripts will do exactly what
they are written to do. That means that a script like those that Corrine has been asked
to write that doesn’t have rules that prevent it from blocking critical systems could block
those systems. There is no indication in the question of any issues with private IP addresses,
and filtering them would require more work. Attackers could potentially use the scripts if
they discovered them, but if they’re able to access security scripts there is likely a deeper
problem. Finally, auditors typically do not review scripts and instead ask about the existence
of controls.
101. D. Differential backups back up all of the changes since the last full backup. An incremental
backup backs up all changes since the last incremental backup. A snapshot captures
machine state and the full drive at a bitwise level, and full backups are a complete copy of a
system but typically do not include the memory state.
102. C. The correct answer is a public cloud. Public clouds are usually less expensive. The cloud
provider has a number of customers and costs are dispersed. Even individuals can afford
to use cloud storage with services like iCloud and Amazon Cloud. A community cloud is
usually private for a small group of partners. Each of the partners must share a greater part
of the expense than they would with a public cloud, but they retain more control over the
cloud than they would with a public cloud. Private clouds are often the most expensive
for smaller organizations. The company must completely develop and maintain the cloud
resources and cannot leverage shared resources. A hybrid deployment model is a good compromise for many situations, but it will typically be more expensive than a public cloud for
a small organization.
103. C. The crossover error rate (CER) is the point where the FAR (false acceptance rate) and
the FRR (false rejection rate) cross over. CER provides a means of comparing biometric systems based on their efficiency, with a lower CER being more desirable.
104. B. Elasticity is a cloud computing concept that matches resources to demand to ensure that
an infrastructure closely matches the needs of the environment. Scalability is the ability to
grow or shrink as needed but does not directly include the concept of matching to workload. Normalization is a code development concept used to ensure that data is in a consistent form.
105. A. An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) should be Nathaniel’s first priority. Ensuring
that power is not disrupted during an outage and can be maintained for a short period until
alternate power like a generator can come online is critical, and a UPS can provide that
capability. A generator alone will take longer to come online, resulting in an outage. Dual
power supplies can help to build resilience by allowing multiple power sources and avoiding
issues if a power supply does fail, but that is not the focus of the question. A managed
power distribution unit (PDU) provides remote management and power monitoring but will
not prevent power loss in an outage.
106. B. Virtual machine (VM) sprawl refers to a situation in which the network has more virtual
machines than the IT staff can effectively manage. The remaining options do not match the
term VM sprawl.
107. C. Stored procedures are commonly used in many database management systems to contain
SQL statements. The database administrator (DBA), or someone designated by the DBA,
creates the various SQL statements that are needed in that business, and then programmers
can simply call the stored procedures. Stored procedures are not related to dynamic linked
libraries (DLLs). Stored procedures can be called by other stored procedures that are also
on the server. Finally, stored procedures are not related to middleware.
108. D. Bollards are large barriers that are often made of strong substances like concrete. They
are effective in preventing a vehicle from being driven into a building. None of the other
answers match the purpose of a bollard.
109. D. Selah should be concerned about cloning the badges because magnetic stripe badges are
relatively simple to clone in most cases. Tailgating is common, particularly if there are large
numbers of employees, since employees are unlikely to allow doors to close and then reopen
them for every person who enters during shift changes. Since magnetic stripe readers do not
require any additional information, use by unauthorized individuals is easy if a badge is lost
or stolen.
110. A. Virtual machine (VM) escape attacks rely on a flaw in the hypervisor that could allow
an attacker to attack the hypervisor itself. Typical system administration best practices can
help, including regular patching of the hypervisor, but in the event of a successful escape
attack, limiting damage by keeping VMs of the same sensitivity level isolated to the same
host can prevent broader impact. Antivirus is always a good idea and may even stop some
malware-based VM escape attacks, but isolating the VM is more effective. Full-disk
encryption (FDE) will have no effect since the disk must be unencrypted during operation.
A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is used for storing cryptographic keys.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

227

111. C. Managed security service providers (MSSPs) are an outside company that handles
security tasks. Some or even all security tasks can be outsourced, including intrusion detection and prevention (IDS/IPS) management, security information and event management
(SIEM) integration, and other security controls. Software-defined networking (SDN) would
make managing security somewhat easier but would itself be difficult to implement. Automating as much security activity as is practical would help alleviate the problem but would
not be as effective as security as a service. Finally, only implementing a few security controls
would likely leave control gaps.
112. B. Cryptographic hashes are used for integrity checking of files, network packets, and a
variety of other applications. Storing a cryptographic hash of the application and comparing
the application on the network to that hash will confirm (or refute) whether the application
has been altered in any way. Network intrusion detection or network intrusion prevention
systems (NIPSs/NIDSs) are useful, but they won’t prevent an application from being altered.
Sandboxing is used to isolate an application, but it won’t detect whether it has been tampered with.
113. C. Separating the SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) system from the
main network makes it less likely that the SCADA system can be affected from the main
network. This includes malware as well as human action. Software-defined networking
(SDN) would make isolating the SCADA system easier but would not actually isolate it.
Patch management is always important, but in this case, it would not have prevented the
issue. Encrypted data transmissions, such as TLS, would have no effect on this situation.
114. B. Gordon should implement a version numbering scheme and ensure that the proper
current version of software components is included in new releases and deployments. Developers could still manually reintroduce old code, but version numbering helps to ensure
that you have a current version in use. Neither continuous deployment nor continuous
integration will prevent old code from being inserted, and release management may rely on
version numbering but won’t prevent it by itself.
115. D. Transport Layer Security (TLS) provides a reliable method of encrypting web traffic. It
supports mutual authentication and is considered secure. Although Secure Sockets Layer
(SSL) can encrypt web traffic, TLS was created in 1999 as its successor. Although many network administrators still use the term SSL, in most cases today what you are using is actually TLS, not the outdated SSL. PPTP and IPSec are protocols for establishing a VPN, not
for encrypting web traffic.
116. A. Smartcards can support modern cryptographic algorithms, meaning that weak security
due to a smartcard’s limitations on encryption is not a common issue. Smartcard readers
and maintenance do add additional expense, and user experiences are limited by the need to
have the card in hand and insert it or present it to a reader either during authentication or
for entire sessions. Smartcards typically have a PIN or password, meaning that they are used
for multifactor, not single-factor, authentication.
117. D. Setting off an alarm so that staff become used to it being a false positive is a technique
that penetration testers may use if they can gain access to a facility. Once staff are used
to alarms going off and ignore it, the penetration testers can enter areas that are alarmed
without a response occurring. Setting off the alarm as part of a test isn’t typical for
penetration testers, and disabling the alarm and waiting for the lack of an alarm to be
reported is also more likely to be part of an internal test, not a penetration test. Asking staff
members to open the door is not a means of making alarms less effective, and staff members
who know the door is alarmed are unlikely to do so.
118. C. The term “XaaS” refers to anything as a service, a broad reference to the huge number
of options that exist for services via third-party providers. The rest of the options for this
question were made up for the question.
119. D. Signage plays multiple roles in secure environments, including discouraging unwanted
or unauthorized access, providing safety warnings, and helping with evacuation routes and
other navigation information as part of a physical safety effort.
120. B. Nora has established a cold site. A cold site is a location that can be brought online but
does not have systems; cold sites typically have access to power and bandwidth, but they
need to be fully equipped to operate after a disaster since they are just rented space. Warm
sites have some or all of the infrastructure and systems Nora needs but does not have data.
A hot site is a fully functional environment with all of the hardware, software, and data
needed to operate an organization. They are expensive to maintain and run but are used by
organizations that cannot take the risk of downtime. A MOU is a memorandum of understanding and is not a type of disaster recovery site.
121. A. Windows calls the point that it saves to return to a known good configuration a system
restore point. Matt should set one prior to installing new software or patching if he is worried about what might occur. The rest of the options are not Windows terms.
122. A. TOTP, or time-based one-time password, algorithms rely on the time being accurate
between both of the authentication hosts. That means that if a system or device is not properly synced to an authoritative and correct time server, or if its local system time has drifted,
the authentication may fail. Although TOTP systems have some flexibility, a clock that is
sufficiently incorrect will cause an issue. HMAC-based one-time password (HOTP) and
short message service (SMS)-based multifactor systems do not suffer from this issue, and
MMAC was made up for this question.
123. C. Object detection capabilities can detect specific types or classes of objects and can be
used to determine if the object is moved. In this case, Nina could enable object detection to
notify her when packages are delivered, and she may be able to specifically select an object
to monitor for additional security. Infrared capabilities are useful in low-light situations,
motion detection helps to preserve storage space by only recording when motion occurs,
and facial recognition could help identify specific individuals but won’t help with packages.
124. C. Although user health data is a concern for the wearer of the device, unless the device
is required by the organization, the user’s health data is typically not an organizational
security concern. GPS location data, data exposure from data that is copied to or accessible
from the device, and the potential for devices to act as unsecured wireless gateways to the
organization’s network are all common security concerns for wearables. Lack of patching,
lack of device encryption, and the inability to enforce compliance or security policies are
also common concerns for wearables.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

229

125. D. A Faraday cage is a metal wire mesh designed to block electromagnetic interference
(EMI). None of the other answers describe what a Faraday cage is used for or capable of.
126. B. Smartcards paired with electronic locks can be used to allow entrance into a building.
The smartcard system can also store information about the user, and thus the system can log
who enters the building. A security guard with a sign-in sheet would function, but there are
many ways to subvert a sign-in sheet, and a guard can be distracted or become inattentive.
This makes smartcard access a better solution. Guards are also more expensive over time.
A camera would record who enters but would not control access. A nonemployee could
enter the building. An uncontrolled/supervised sign-in sheet would not be secure.
127. D. Although electronic locks offer a number of advantages, including the ability to provide
different codes or access to different users and the ability to deprovision access, they also
require power, whether in the form of a battery or constantly provided power from a power
source. That means that power loss can cause issues, either due to the lock remaining locked
or defaulting to an open state.
128. A. Managing her organization’s IP address schema and usage will allow Kara to identify
unknown and potentially rogue devices. IP addresses are not used to secure encryption keys,
and managing a schema will not help prevent denial-of-service attacks. Keeping track of
what IP addresses are in use can help avoid IP address exhaustion, but this does not provide
a direct security advantage.
129. C. Of the locks listed here, deadbolts are the most secure. The locking bolt goes into the
door frame, making it more secure. Whether a lock uses a key or combination does not
change how secure it is. Key-in-knob is a very common, and generally provides less resistance to bypass than a deadbolt-based solution. Finally, padlocks can be cut off with
common bolt cutters.
130. B. NIC teaming can provide greater throughput by sending traffic through multiple network interface cards (NICs) while also ensuring that loss of a card will not cause an outage,
thus providing fault tolerance.
131. A. False acceptance rate (FAR) is the rate at which the system incorrectly allows in someone
it should not. This is clearly a significant concern. Any error is a concern, but the false
rejection rate is less troublesome than the false acceptance rate. The cross-over error rate
(CER) is when the FAR and the false rejection rate (FRR) become equal. This indicates a
consistent operation of the biometric system. The equal error rate is another name for crossover error rate.
132. C. Data sovereignty refers to the concept that data that is collected and stored in a country
is subject to that country’s laws. This can be a complex issue with multinational cloud
services and providers that may store data in multiple countries as part of their normal
architecture. It may also create compliance and other challenges based on differences in
national laws regarding data, data privacy, and similar issues.
133. A. Low-power devices typically have limited processor speed, memory, and storage,
meaning that encryption can be a challenge. Fortunately, solutions exist that implement
low-power cryptographic processing capabilities, and continued advances in processor
design continue to make lower-power processors faster and more efficient. Legal limitations
do not typically take into account whether a device is a low-power device, and public key
encryption can be implemented on a wide range of CPUs and embedded systems, so factoring prime numbers is unlikely to be an issue.
134. A. A secure cabinet or safe is tamper-proof and provides a good place to store anything you
are trying to physically protect. Encrypting thumb drives would require you to store the key
used to encrypt the thumb drive, thus continuing the problem. It is actually a good practice
to store BitLocker keys on removable media, provided that media is safeguarded. In most
cases, desk drawers are not secure and can easily be broken into, even if they are locked.
135. D. RAID 6, disk striping with dual parity, uses a minimum of four disks with distributed
parity bits. RAID 6 can handle up to two disks failing. RAID 3 is byte-level striping with
dedicated parity and cannot tolerate more than a single drive failing. RAID 0 is disk
striping, which cannot handle disk failure, and RAID 5, disk striping with distributed parity,
can handle only one disk failing.
136. C. The ability to record is not included in many traditional closed-circuit television (CCTV)
monitoring systems and is a key element of investigations of theft and other issues. Motion
activation and facial recognition are typically associated with computer-based camera systems but do not directly address the concern Maria is working to handle. Infrared cameras
would be more useful in spaces where lights were not always in use, such as outdoors or in
facilities that are not occupied at night.
137. C. Static codes are typically recorded in a secure location, but if they are not properly
secured, or are otherwise exposed, they can be stolen. Brute-force attempts should be
detected and prevented by back-off algorithms and other techniques that prevent attacks
against multifactor authentication systems. Collisions exist with hashing algorithms, not
with static multifactor codes, and clock mismatch issues occur for time-based one-time password (TOTP) codes.
138. B. A symmetric cryptosystem will typically perform faster and with less processor overhead
and thus lower latency than asymmetric cryptosystems. Hashing is not encryption, and onetime pads are not implemented in modern cryptosystems, although they may have uses in
future quantum cryptographic solutions.
139. A. Industrial camouflage efforts minimize how noticeable a facility is, helping it to remain
unnoticed by casual observers. Although industrial camouflage can be useful, it is rarely
effective against determined adversaries. A demilitarized zone (DMZ) in information security terms is a network segment that is intentionally exposed to the public with appropriate
security protecting, while stronger security is applied to nonpublic resources. Disruptive
coloration is a camouflage technique but not one used in information security. Industrial
obfuscation was made up for this question.
140. A. Asymmetric cryptography has a relatively high computational overhead, making
symmetric key encryption faster. That means that once you can exchange an ephemeral
symmetric key, or a series of keys, you can encrypt and send data more quickly and
efficiently using symmetric encryption. There is no key length limitation, and reasonable
lifespans are met with either technology. Key reuse is not an issue with a public key
encryption scheme.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

231

141. D. Failure to release memory you have allocated can lead to a memory leak. Therefore, if
you are using a programming language like C++ that allows you to allocate memory, make
certain you deallocate that memory as soon as you are finished using it. Allocating only the
variable size needed and declaring variables where needed are good programming practices.
However, failure to follow them just leads to wasteful use of memory; it does not lead to a
security problem like a memory leak. Although this is a good idea to prevent buffer overflows, it is not a memory management issue.
142. B. Using a longer key is the best way to make it less likely that an encrypted file will be
cracked. This does not prevent issues with the algorithm itself, but if a vulnerability is not
found in an algorithm, adding key length will help ensure that even significant increases
in computational power will not result in the encryption being cracked in a reasonable
period of time. Quantum computing has the potential to change this, but practical quantum
encryption cracking tools are not known to be available yet. There is no such thing as an
anti-quantum cipher, and a rotating symmetric key might be used to ensure that a key could
not be cracked but does not provide longevity. Instead, it is used to allow ephemeral communications to be less likely to be cracked on an ongoing basis.
143. C. The best answer from this list is DLP, or data loss prevention technology. DLP is
designed to protect data from being exposed or leaking from a network using a variety of
techniques and technology. Stateful firewalls are used to control which traffic is sent to or
from a system, but will not detect sensitive data. OEM is an original equipment manufacturer, and security information and event management (SIEM) can help track events and
incidents but will not directly protect data itself.
144. C. Encryption keys used for quantum key distribution are sent in the form of qubits. The
polarization state of the qubits reflects the bit values of the key. Once sent, the receiver can
validate the state of some of those qubits to ensure both sender and receiver have the same
key. Bytes and bits are used in traditional data exchanges, and nuquants were made up for
this question.
145. B. Two-person control schemes require two individuals to be involved to perform an action.
This means that Alicia can implement a two-person control scheme knowing that both individuals would have to be involved to subvert the control process. Biometrics will merely
validate that a person is who they say they are, robotic sentries do not add any particular
value to this scenario, and a demilitarized zone (DMZ) is used to keep front-facing systems
in a zone that can be controlled and secured.
146. A. Social login is an example of a federated approach to using identities. The combination
of identity providers and service providers, along with authorization management, is a key
part of federation. AAA is authentication, authorization, and accounting and is typically
associated with protocols like RADIUS. Privilege creep occurs as staff members change jobs
and their privileges are not adjusted to only match their current role. IAM is a broader set
of identity and access management practices. Although IAM may be involved in federated
identity, this question does not directly describe IAM.
147. A. USB data blockers are used to ensure that cables can only be used for charging, and
not for data transfer. None of the other answers to this question are used for this purpose,
and in fact all were made up—USB is a serial bus, circuit breakers are used for power, and
HMAC-based one-time password (HOTP) is a type of multifactor token algorithm.
148. B. In the platform-as-a-service (PaaS) model, the consumer has access to the infrastructure
to create applications and host them. Software-as-a-service (SaaS) supplies a particular
application; infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) does not directly provide the ability to create
applications, although this distinction is quickly blurring; and IDaaS is identity-as-a-service.
149. B. Avoiding reuse of the key components of an encryption process means that even if a
malicious actor managed to break the encryption for a message or exchange, the next new
initialization vector (IV) and key would require an entirely new brute-force attack. Using a
new IV and key does not make brute-force attacks impossible, nor does it make brute force
easier. A single successful attack would expose a single message, or however much data was
encrypted using that IV and key.
150. C. The Linux kernel uses user-driven events like keystrokes, mouse movement, and similar
events to generate randomness (entropy). The time of day is not random, user logins are
typically not frequent enough or random enough to be a useful source of entropy, and network packet timing is not used for this. If you encounter a question like this and don’t
know where to start, consider what you know about entropy—it is randomness, so you
would be looking for the input that would have the most randomness to it. Thus, you could
rule out the time of day, and likely user logins. After that, you might consider what could be
controlled by an external party: network packets being sent to the system, and rule that out
as a potential attack vector. That leaves keyboard input and mouse movement.
151. C. Elliptic curve encryption schemes allow the use of a shorter key for the same strength
that an RSA key would require, reducing the computational overhead required to encrypt
and decrypt data. That doesn’t mean you should use a short key; instead, you must select a
key length that matches your requirements for resistance to brute force and other attacks.
Hashing is nonreversible and is not a form of encryption.
152. C. Lighting serves a deterrent control, making potential malicious actors feel like they may
be observed without dark areas or shadows to hide in. It does not detect actions, it does
not compensate for the lack of another control, and although some lights may turn on for
motion, the primary purpose is to deter malicious or unwanted actions.
153. C. Edge computing places both data storage and computational power closer to where
it is needed to save on bandwidth and to improve the response of associated applications
and services. Hybrid computing combines local and cloud computing. Local cloud builds
cloud infrastructure on local systems. Mist computing was made up for this question but
may sound similar to fog computing, a term that has a similar meaning to edge computing,
which uses local computation and storage that is then Internet connected.
154. D. Ben has deployed a tokenization scheme. Encryption would require the data to be
decrypted to be used, and this is not mentioned. Hashing could be used to conceal values
but does not preserve the ability to work with the data. Masking modifies content to conceal personally identifiable information or other sensitive information.
155. D. Fencing is both a useful deterrent because it discourages malicious actors from accessing
the grounds that Dana wants to protect. It is also an example of a physical control. A visitor
log is an administrative control and will not deter malicious actors. Motion detectors and
cameras are examples of detective controls.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

233

156. A. Adding a digital signature can ensure that both the message has not been changed, and
thus its integrity is intact, and that it supports nonrepudiation by proving that the message
is from the sender who claims to have sent it.
157. B. Attestation processes request responsible managers or others to validate that user entitlements or privileges are correct and match those that the user should have. Attestation is not
an employment verification process, although managers may discover that users who have
left the organization still have rights as part of an attestation process. It does not require
proof of identity or validation of security controls.
158. B. A generator is the most appropriate answer to a multihour outage. Although a hot site
would allow her organization to stay online, the cost of a hot site is much higher than that
of a generator. A PDU, or power distribution unit, is used to manage and distribute power,
not to handle power outages. Finally, UPS systems are not typically designed to handle long
outages. Instead, they condition power and ensure that systems remain online long enough
for a generator to take over providing power.
159. A. A MAC supports authentication and integrity and is used to confirm that messages came
from the sender who is claimed to have sent it and also ensure that recipients can validate
the integrity of the message. It does not help with confidentiality.
160. C. Inert gas systems are used to reduce the oxygen in a room without the hazard to staff
that carbon dioxide systems use. Both dry-pipe and pre-charge systems use water, which can
harm delicate electronics.
161. C. Proximity card readers usually work using RFID (radio frequency ID) technology. This
allows cards to be used in proximity but without requiring a direct reader like a magnetic
stripe. Neither biometrics or infrared are used for proximity card readers.
162. A. Digital signatures that use a sender’s private key provide nonrepudiation by allowing a
sender to prove that they sent a message. Unless the sender’s private key has been compromised, signing a message with their private key and allowing the recipient to validate the
signature using their public key ensures that the sender sent the message in question. Longer
keys don’t prove who a sender is, hashes are not reversible, and the public key in use is the
sender’s, not the recipient’s.
163. B. Natural disasters, as well as man-made disasters, are primary considerations for geographic security considerations. Placing backup sites outside of the likely path or range
of a single disaster helps ensure continuity of operations for organizations. MTR is the
maximum time to restore, sprawl avoidance is usually considered for virtual machines, and
service integration is a consideration for service architectures, not geographical placement.
164. B. Although actual threats from drones and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are relatively
rare for most organizations, placing sensitive areas further inside a building will deter most
current generations of drones from entering or recording them. Security doors and other
common obstacles will prevent most UAV or drone penetration that typical organizations
will face. Fences are easily bypassed by flying drones, biometric sensors won’t stop a drone
from hovering outside of a window, and Faraday cages might stop a drone from receiving
commands if you could get the drone inside first!
165. D. The key trade-off when considering resource constraints for encryption is that stronger
encryption with longer keys requires more computational time and resources. This means
that it will be slower and will consume more of the capacity of a system. A balance between security and computational overhead needs to be struck that matches the confidentiality needs of the data that is being handled or sent. Stronger encryption is usually slower,
running out of entropy in the scenario described is not a typical concern, and stronger
encryption taking up significant amounts of drive space is also not a real issue in this
scenario.
166. C. Encrypting the message will ensure that it remains confidential as long as only the
recipient is able to decrypt it. Hashing the message will result in the message not being
recoverable, whereas digitally signing it can provide nonrepudiation. Finally, quantum
encryption algorithms and the systems required to use them are not available today,
meaning Amanda won’t be able to use them—yet!
167. C. In most cases, the major cloud service providers have more security staff and a greater
budget for security operations. This means they can invest more in security controls, staffing, monitoring, and other activities. Using a cloud service provider can help improve the
overall security posture of an organization that might not have the ability to have full-time
or dedicated security staff or expertise. At the same time, local staff will understand the
business better and will usually have a faster response time to critical business needs.
168. D. Network load balancers distribute traffic among systems, allowing systems to be added
or removed, and making patching and upgrades easier by draining connections from systems and removing them from the pool when work needs to be done on them. They can
also help monitor systems for performance, report on issues, and ensure that loads match
the capabilities of the systems that they are in front of. Firewalls are used for security,
switches are a network device used to transfer traffic to the correct system, and a horizontal
scaler was made up for this question.
169. D. Protected cable distribution uses such controls as electrical, electromagnetic, and even
acoustic or air pressure sensors to ensure that cables and distribution infrastructure are not
accessed, allowing sensitive information to be transmitted in unencrypted form. The U.S.
government identifies three options: hardened carrier, alarmed carrier, and continuously
viewed protected distribution systems. Shielded cables are used to prevent EMI.
170. B. Maureen is using the concept of audio steganography by hiding data inside an audio file
in a way that conceals it from detection. The other options are made up for this question.
171. B. Since Nicole is specifically worried about SMS pushes to cell phones, the most likely
attack model is SIM (subscriber identity module) cloning, allowing attackers to obtain
the authentication codes sent to legitimate users. Attacks on a Voice over Internet Protocol
(VoIP) system would typically help intercept SMS if it was sent to VoIP phones, not cell
phones (although forwarding is possible, but not mentioned here). Brute-force attacks are
unlikely to succeed against SMS phone factors, and rainbow tables are used to crack hashed
passwords.

Chapter 2: Architecture and Design

235

172. C. Encryption is often used to protect data at rest. When data needs to be accessed, it can
be decrypted. Hashing is not reversible, meaning that it is not used for data storage when
the original form is needed for processing. Comparing hashed passwords works because the
password is presented again, rather than the password needing to be retrieved from storage.
TLS is used to protect data in motion, and tokenization is a data security technique that
replaces sensitive data elements with nonsensitive elements that can still be processed in
useful ways.
173. B. Nathaniel has created an air gap, a physical separation that will require manual transport of files, patches, and other data between the two environments. This helps to ensure
that attackers cannot access critical systems and that insiders cannot export data from the
environment easily. A demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a separate network segment or zone
that is exposed to the outside world or other lower trust area. A vault is a secured space
or room, but vaulting is not a term used on the Security+ exam, and a hot aisle is the aisle
where servers exhaust warm air.
174. A. Masking modifies content to conceal personally identifiable information (PII) or other
sensitive information. Tokenization replaces sensitive information with a nonsensitive
alternative that allows the data to still be processed in useful ways. Encryption would
require the data to be decrypted to be used, and this is not mentioned. Hashing could be
used to conceal values but does not preserve the ability to work with the data.
175. C. On-premises cloud computing is often called private cloud. Not all private clouds have
to be on-site, because private clouds could be deployed to a remote location like a thirdparty hosting facility. Infrastructure as a service and platform as a service refer to thirdparty hosting services, and hybrid cloud combines both on-premises and cloud computing
models.
176. C. The most likely threat to physical tokens is theft or loss resulting in access to the token.
Cloning tokens might be possible if the token’s seed were known, but they are designed to
prevent this from being reverse-engineered, meaning a significant breach of the vendor or
similar issue would be required to cause an exposure. Brute force is not a realistic threat
against most token implementations, nor is algorithm failure.
177. D. Control diversity means utilizing different controls to mitigate the same threat. For malware, the use of technical controls, such as antimalware, is critical. But it is also important
to have administrative controls, such as good policies, and to ensure that employees are
properly trained. Thus, for this question a combination of policies, training, and tools is the
best answer.
178. A. Although it may seem like Charles has presented two factors, in fact he has only presented two types of things he knows along with his identity. To truly implement a multifactor environment, he should use more than one of something you have, something you
know, and something you are.
179. C. Salt reuse is a critical mistake, because it would allow a rainbow table to be generated
using that salt. Although standard rainbow tables would not work, a reused salt would only
require the creation of a single new rainbow table. Alphanumeric salts are not a problem,
long salts are not a problem, and this salt is a reasonable length at 16 characters using
hexadecimal.
180. B. Alaina’s need for a local, secure storage area is an ideal situation for the use of a vault or
safe where the keys can be stored on a device like a thumb drive. Simply placing them on a
drive leaves them vulnerable to theft, and an air-gapped system would also be potentially
exposed to theft or local breaches.
181. B. It is critical to authenticate API users and then to authorize them to take actions. If you
authorized first and then authenticated, users could take action before you knew who they
were! Encrypting throughout the use of the API keeps data and queries secure, validating
input and filtering out dangerous strings is important to prevent injection and other attacks,
and auditing and logging allows you to troubleshoot and respond to issues and attacks.
182. C. Frank has used a degausser to erase the data on the tapes. Degaussing only works on
magnetic media like tapes and will not work on optical or flash media. Burning media or
materials is exactly what it sounds like—putting them into a fire! Shredding and pulping are
mechanical means of destruction.
183. A. 5G requires higher antenna density for full bandwidth communication than previous
technologies, meaning that Angela’s organization will have to carefully consider antenna
placement, particularly inside buildings where structural elements can create challenges with
signal propagation. 5G is usable indoors, is commercially available, and can coexist with
traditional Wi-Fi, so Angela should not include those in her list of concerns.
184. A. Chris is concerned about privilege creep, the slow accumulation of privileges over time
as staff members change roles and their privileges are not removed or updated. Privilege
management processes would help to prevent this, thus keeping data more secure. Of the
other options, only privilege escalation is a common term, and it means gaining additional
privileges, typically as part of an attack from an account with fewer privileges to a more
privileged account like an administrator or root account.
185. C. Honeyfiles are files that are intended to help detect attackers. They are placed in a location where accessing them can be detected but are not set up to allow users to access them.
That means that attackers who access the seemingly desirable file can be easily detected and
appropriate alerts can be sent.
186. C. Although there is no specific recommended distance, recommendations typically range
from 60 to 120 miles away to ensure that a single disaster is unlikely to disable both locations.
187. B. Fog computing is a term coined by Cisco to describe cloud computing at the edge of
an enterprise network. The more common term for this is edge computing, but you may
encounter both terms. Fog implementations handle significant amounts of computation,
communication, and storage activities locally, while also connecting to cloud services to perform some of the work.
188. A. Bcrypt, scrypt, and PBKDF2 are all examples of key stretching algorithms. MD5 and
SHA1 are both hashing algorithms, and ncrypt was made up for this question.
189. C. The only directory service listed is Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP).
SAML is Security Assertion Markup Language, OAuth is an authorization delegation
protocol, and 802.1x is a network authentication protocol.

Chapter 3: Implementation

237

Chapter 3: Implementation
1.

A. Dual control, which requires two individuals to perform a function; split knowledge,
which splits the passphrase or key between two or more people; and separation of duties,
which ensures that a single individual does not control or oversee the entire process all help
prevent insider threats when managing a PKI. Requiring a new passphrase when a certificate
is used is not a reasonable solution and would require reissuing the certificate.

2.

B. A site survey is the process of identifying where access points should be located for best
coverage and identifying existing sources of RF interference, including preexisting wireless
networks and other devices that may use the same radio frequency spectrum. By conducting
a site survey, Naomi can guide the placement of her access points as well as create a channel
design that will work best for her organization.

3.

B. The option that best meets the needs described above is PEAP, the Protected Extensible
Authentication Protocol. PEAP relies on server-side certificates and relies on tunneling to
ensure communications security. EAP-MD5 is not recommended for wireless networks and
does not support mutual authentication of the wireless client and network. LEAP, the Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol, uses WEP keys for its encryption and is not
recommended due to security issues. Finally, EAP-TLS, or EAP Transport Layer Security,
requires certificates on both the client and server, consuming more management overhead.

4.

C. East-west traffic is traffic sent laterally inside a network. Some networks focus security
tools at the edges or places where networks interconnect, leaving internal, or east-west, traffic
open. In zero-trust environments, internal traffic is not presumed to be trustworthy, reducing
the risks of this type of lateral communication. Side-stepping, slider traffic, and peer interconnect were all made up for this question, although peer interconnect may sound similar to
peer-to-peer traffic, which may be lateral in many networks.

5.

C. Although preventing Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) sniffing may sound
humorous, MIME sniffing can be used in cross-site scripting attacks, and the X-ContentType-Options header helps prevent MIME sniffing. HTTP security-oriented headers can also
set X-Frame options, turn on cross-site scripting protection, set content security policies, and
require transport security. There isn’t a “Disable SQL injection” header, however!

6.

C. Mobile device management (MDM) suites often provide the ability to manage content
on devices as well as applications. Using content management tools can allow Charlene to
provision files, documents, and media to the devices that staff members in her organization
are issued. Application management would be useful for apps. Remote wipe can remove data
and applications from the device if it is lost or stolen, or an employee leaves the organization.
Push notifications are useful when information needs to be provided to the device user.

7.

C. In this scenario, Denny specifically needs to ensure that he stops the most malware. In situations like this, vendor diversity is the best way to detect more malware, and installing a different vendor’s antivirus (AV) package on servers like email servers and then installing a managed
package for PCs will result in the most detections in almost all cases. Installing more than one
AV package on the same system is rarely recommended, since this often causes performance
issues and conflicts between the packages—in fact, at times AV packages have been known to
detect other AV packages because of the deep hooks they place into the operating system to
detect malicious activity!
8.

B. Amanda has encountered a captive portal. Captive portals redirect all traffic to the portal
page, either to allow the portal to collect information or to display the page itself. Once users
have completed the requirements that the portal puts in place, they are permitted to browse
the Internet. This may be accomplished by assigning a new IP address or by allowing the
connected IP address to have access to the Internet using a firewall rule or other similar
method. Preshared keys are used in wireless networks for authentication. Port security is
used for wired networks, and WPA stands for Wi-Fi Protected Access, as in WPA, WPA-2,
and WPA-3.

9.

B. Domain Name System Security Extensions, or DNSSEC, provides the ability to validate
DNS data and denial of existence, and provides data integrity for DNS. It does not provide
confidentiality or availability controls. If Charles needs to provide those, he will have to
implement additional controls.

10. B. Google is acting as an identity provider, or IdP. An IdP creates and manages identities for
federations. An RP is a relying party, which relies on an identity provider. An SP is a service
provider, and an RA is a registration authority involved in the process for providing cryptographic certificates.
11. C. SSH, or Secure Shell, is a secure protocol used to connect to command-line shells. SSH
can also be used to tunnel other protocols, making it a useful and frequently used tool for
system administrators, security professionals, and attackers. Using HTTPS or Transport
Layer Security (TLS) for a secure command line is rare, and Telnet is an insecure protocol.
12. B. Of the options provided, only FIDO U2F, an open standard provided by the Fast IDentity
Online Alliance, is a standard for security keys. Other standards that you may encounter
include OTP (One Time Password), SmartCard, OATH-HOTP, and OpenPGP. Of note,
OATH, the Initiative for Open Authentiation provides standards both HMAC-based one time
password (HOTP) and TOTP, or time-based one time passwords. SAML (Security Assertion
Markup Language) and OpenID are both used in authentication processes but not for security keys. ARF was made up for this question.
13. C. Nadia should use Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME), which supports asymmetric encryption and should then use Danielle’s public key to encrypt the email
so that only Danielle can decrypt the messages and read them. Secure POP3 would protect
messages while they’re being downloaded but would not protect the content of the messages
between servers.
14. B. SRTP is a secure version of the Real-Time Transport Protocol and is used primarily for
Voice over IP (VoIP) and multimedia streaming or broadcast. SRTP, as currently implemented, does not fully protect packets, leaving RTP headers exposed, potentially exposing
information that might provide attackers with information about the data being transferred.
15. C. Olivia should make her organization aware that a failure in one of the active nodes would
result in less maximum throughput and a potential for service degradation. Since services are
rarely run at maximum capacity, and many can have maintenance windows scheduled, this

Chapter 3: Implementation

239

does not mean that the load balancers cannot be patched. There is nothing in this design that
makes the load balancers more vulnerable to denial of service than they would be under any
other design.
16. A. File Transfer Protocol Secure (FTPS) typically uses port 990 for implicit FTPS and port
21, the normal FTP command port, is used for explicit FTPS. Port 22 is used for SSH,
433 was used for the Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP), 1433 is used for Microsoft
SQL, and port 20 is used for FTP.
17. A. Certificate stapling allows the server that is presenting a certificate to provide a more efficient way to check the revocation status of the certificate via the Online Certificate Status
Protocol (OCSP) by including the OCSP response with the handshake for the certificate. This
provides both greater security because clients know that the certificate is valid, and greater
efficiency because they don’t have to perform a separate retrieval to check the certificate’s
status. The rest of the options were made up and are not certificate stapling.
18. B. A registration authority, or RA, receives requests for new certificates as well as renewal
requests for existing certificates. They can also receive revocation requests and similar tasks.
An intermedia CA is trusted by the root CA to issue certificates. A CRL is a certificate revocation list.
19. C. Least connection-based load balancing takes load into consideration and sends the next
request to the server with the least number of active sessions. Round robin simply distributes requests to each server in order, whereas weighted time uses health checks to determine
which server responds the most quickly on an ongoing basis and then sends the traffic to that
server. Finally, source IP hashing uses the source and destination IP addresses to generate a
hash key and then uses that key to track sessions, allowing interrupted sessions to be reallocated to the same server and thus allowing the sessions to continue.
20. A. IPSec’s Authentication Header (AH) protocol does not provide data confidentiality
because it secures only the header, not the payload. That means that AH can provide integrity and replay protection but leaves the rest of the data at risk. Matt should note this and
express concerns about why the VPN is not using Encapsulating Security Protocol (ESP).
21. C. Michelle knows that POP3 runs on port 110 by default, and that TLS (via STARTTLS as
an extension) allows POP3 clients to request a secure connection without needing to use the
alternate port 995 used in some configurations. Port 25 is the default port for Simple Mail
Transfer Protocol (SMTP), and IKE is used for IPSec.
22. A. A cloud access security broker (CASB) is a software tool or service that sits between an
organization’s on-premises network and a cloud provider’s infrastructure. A CASB acts as
a gatekeeper, allowing the organization to extend the reach of their security policies into
the cloud.
23. A. Angela’s company has deployed a version of Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) that doesn’t
use Transport Layer Security (TLS) to maintain confidentiality. She should switch to a SIP
Secure (SIPS) implementation to protect the confidentiality of phone conversations. Vishing,
or voice phishing; war dialing, which attempts to map all numbers for a phone service,
typically to find modems; and denial of service are all less likely on a VoIP network, although
they could occur.
24. B. The fastest way for Alaina to implement secure transport for her Network Time Protocol
(NTP) traffic will typically be to simply tunnel the traffic via Secure Shell (SSH) from the
NTP server to her Linux systems. An IPSec virtual private network (VPN) between devices
will typically take more work to set up and maintain, although this could be scripted, and a
Transport Layer Security (TLS) VPN would require additional work since it is intended for
web traffic. RDP is the Remote Desktop Protocol and is primarily used for Windows systems and would not be a good choice. In most environments, however, NTP traffic does not
receive any special security, and NTP sources are trusted to perform without exceptional
security measures.
25. D. The safest and most secure answer is that Ramon should simply implement TLS for the
entire site. Although TLS does introduce some overhead, modern systems can handle large
numbers of simultaneous TLS connections, making a secure website an easy answer in almost
all cases.
26. D. Although IP addresses for public servers and clients are not typically considered sensitive,
the usernames, passwords, and files that the contractors use would be. Katie should consider
helping her organization transition to a secure FTP or other service to protect her organization’s customers and the organization itself.
27. D. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) sniffing or snooping can be enabled to
prevent rogue DHCP servers as well as malicious or malformed DHCP traffic. It also allows
the capture and collection of DHCP binding information to let network administrators know
who is assigned what IP address.
28. B. Aaron can use a wildcard certificate to cover all the hosts inside of a set of subdomains.
Wildcards only cover a single level of subdomain, however, so if he purchased *.example
.com, he could not use *.blog.example.com. A self-signed certificate will cause errors
for visitors and should not be used for production purposes. Self-signed certificates will create errors in most browsers and so are not used in production environments. Extended validation (EV) certificates will not provide this functionality, and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) is
no longer in use with the switch to TLS for security reasons.
29. D. Root Guard can be set on a per-port basis to protect ports that will never be set up to be
the root bridge for a VLAN. Since this shouldn’t change regularly, it is safe to set for most
ports in a network. Spanning tree is used to prevent loops, so disabling STP would actually
make this problem more likely. Bridge IDs cannot be negative, and BridgeProtect was made
up for this question.
30. C. A Personal Information Exchange (PFX) formatted file is a binary format used to store
server certificates, as well as intermediary certificates, and it can also contain the server’s
private key. Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) files can contain multiple PEM certificates and a
private key, but most systems store certificates and the key separately. Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) format files are frequently used with Java platforms and can store all types
of certificates and private keys. P7B, or PKCS#7, formatted files can contain only certificates
and certificate chains, not private keys. For the exam, you should also know that a CER is a
file extension for an SSL certificate file format used by web servers to help verify the identity
and security of the site in question. SSL certificates are provided by a third-party security
certificate authority such as VeriSign, GlobalSign, or Thawte.

Chapter 3: Implementation

241

A P12 file contains a digital certificate that uses PKCS#12 (Public Key Cryptography Standard #12) encryption. The P12 file contains both the private and the public key, as well as
information about the owner (name, email address, etc.), all being certified by a third party.
With such a certificate, a user can identify themselves and authenticate themselves to any
organization trusting the third party.
31. D. A firewall has two types of rules. One type is to allow specific traffic on a given port. The
other type of rule is to deny traffic. What is shown here is a typical firewall rule. Options A,
B, and C are incorrect. The rule shown is clearly a firewall rule.
32. C. Many subscription services allow for data retrieval via HTTPS. Ted can subscribe to one
or more threat feeds or reputation services, and then feed that information to an intrusion
detection system (IDS), intrusion prevention system (IPS), next -generation firewall, or similar
network security tool. Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is used to make assertions about identities and authorization, a VDI is a virtual desktop environment, and FDE is
full-disk encryption.
33. B. Secure cookies are HTTP cookies that have the secure flag set, thus requiring them to only
be sent via a secure channel like HTTPS. They are not stored in encrypted form or hashed,
and cookie keys were made up for this question.
34. D. Unlike IPSec’s tunnel mode, IPSec transport mode allows different policies per port. The
IP addresses in the outer header for transport mode packets are used to determine the policy
applied to the packet. IPSec doesn’t have a PSK mode, but WPA-2 does. IKE is used to set up
security associations in IPSec but doesn’t allow this type of mode setting.
35. A. WPS personal identification numbers (PINs) were revealed to be a problem in 2011, when
a practical brute-force attack against WPS PIN setup modes was demonstrated. WPS suffers
from a variety of other security issues and is not used for enterprise security. WPS remains in
use in home environments for ease of setup.
36. C. The Online Certificate Status Protocol, or OCSP, is used to determine the status of a certificate. RTCP, CRBL, and PKCRL were all made up for this question.
37. C. Certificate revocation lists (CRLs) are designed specifically for revoking certificates. Since
public keys are distributed via certificates, this is the most effective way to deauthorize a
public key. Option A is incorrect. Simply notifying users that a key/certificate is no longer
valid is not effective. Option B is incorrect. Deleting a certificate is not always possible and
ignores the possibility of a duplicate of that certificate existing. Option D is incorrect. The
registration authority (RA) is used in creating new certificates, not in revoking them.
38. C. Global Positioning System (GPS) data and data about local Wi-Fi networks are the two
most commonly used protocols to help geofencing applications determine where they are.
When a known Wi-Fi signal is gained or lost, the geofencing application knows it is within
range of that network. GPS data is even more useful because it can work in most locations
and provide accurate location data. Although Bluetooth is sometimes used for geofencing,
its limited range means that it is a third choice. Cellular information would require accurate
tower-based triangulation, which means it is not typically used for geofencing applications,
and of course USB is a wired protocol.
39. A. The demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a zone between an outer firewall and an inner firewall.
It is specifically designed as a place to locate public-facing servers. The outer firewall is
more permissive, thus allowing public access to the servers in the DMZ. However, the inner
firewall is more secure, thus preventing outside access to the corporate network.
40. C. The first step in security is hardening the operating system, and one of the most
elementary aspects of that is turning off unneeded services. This is true regardless of the
operating system. Although installing antimalware, implementing usage policies, and setting
password reuse policies are all good practices, turning off unnecessary services is typically the
first step in securing a system..
41. C. Knowledge-based authentication requires information that only the user is likely to know.
Examples include things like previous tax payments, bill amounts, and similar information.
Requesting a Social Security number is less secure and would only work for users in the
United States. Federated identity via Google accounts does not meet this need because Google
accounts do not have a user validation requirement. Finally, validation emails only prove that
the user has access to an account that they provide, not that they are a specific individual.
42. A. A Transport Layer Security (TLS) VPN is frequently chosen when ease of use is important,
and web applications are the primary usage mode. IPSec VPNs are used for site-to-site VPNs
and for purposes where other protocols may be needed, because they make the endpoint
system appear to be on the remote network.
43. A. Full-disk encryption (FDE) fully encrypts the hard drive on a computer. This is an effective method for ensuring the security of data on a computer. Trusted Platform Modules
(TPMs) are store keys and are used for boot integrity and other cryptographic needs and
won’t directly protect the data. Software-defined networking (SDN) is virtualized networking, and demilitarized zones (DMZs) are used to segment a network and won’t affect
this problem.
44. A. A DMZ (demilitarized zone) provides limited access to public-facing servers for outside
users, but blocks outside users from accessing systems inside the LAN. It is a common practice to place web servers in the DMZ. A virtual LAN, or VLAN, is most often used to segment the internal network, routers direct traffic based on IP address, and a guest network
allows internal users who are not employees to get access to the Internet.
45. D. Identity attributes are characteristics of an identity, including details like the individual’s
birth date, age, job title, address, or a multitude of other details about the identity. They
are used to differentiate the identity from others and may also be used by the identity
management system or connected systems in coordination with the identity itself. Roles
describe the job or position an individual has in an organization, and factors are something
you know, something you have, or something you are. Identifiers are not a common security
or authentication term, although identity is.
46. D. The CN, or common name, for a certificate for a system is typically the fully qualified
domain name (FQDN) for the server. If Megan was requesting a certificate for herself,
instead of for a server, she would use her full name.
47. B. Physically portioning your network is the physical equivalent of a virtual LAN, or VLAN.
A VLAN is designed to emulate physical partitioning. Perimeter security does not segment

Chapter 3: Implementation

243

the network. Security zones are useful but don’t, by themselves, segment a network. Often a
network is segmented, using physical partitions or VLAN, to create security zones. A firewall
is meant to block certain traffic, not to segment the network, although a firewall can be part
of a segmentation or security zone implementation.
48. D. Nelson is using a whitelisting (or allowed list) tool. Tools like this allow only specific
applications to be installed and run on a system and often use hashes of known good applications to ensure that the applications are those that are permitted. A blacklisting (or blocked
list) tool prevents specific applications or files from being used, stored, or downloaded to a
system. Although antivirus and antimalware tools may have similar features, the most
accurate answer here is whitelisting.
49. B. A stateful inspection firewall examines the content and context of each packet it encounters. This means that a stateful packet inspection (SPI) firewall understands the preceding
packets that came from the same IP address, and thus the context of the communications.
This makes certain attacks, like a SYN flood, almost impossible. Packet filtering firewalls
examine each packet but not the context. Application-layer firewalls can use SPI or simple
packet filtering, but their primary role is to examine application-specific issues. A common
example is a web application firewall. A gateway firewall is simply a firewall at the network
gateway. This does not tell us whether it is packet filtering or SPI.
50. A. Wireless network heatmaps are used to show how strong wireless network signals are
throughout a building or location. Scott can use a heatmap like this to see where the wireless
signal drops off or where interference may occur. A network diagram would show the logical
layout of a network. A demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a network security zone that is exposed
to a higher risk region, and a zone map is not a common security term.
51. B. A demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a separate subnet coming off the separate router interface. Public traffic may be allowed to pass from the external public interface to the DMZ,
but it won’t be allowed to pass to the interface that connects to the internal private network.
A guest network provides visitors with Internet access. An intranet consists of internal web
resources. Frequently companies put up web pages that are accessible only from within the
network for items like human resources notifications, vacation requests, and so forth.
A virtual LAN, or VLAN, is used to segment your internal network.
52. C. The application includes input validation techniques that are used to ensure that unexpected or malicious input does not cause problems with the application. Input validation
techniques will strip out control characters, validate data, and perform a variety of other
actions to clean input before it is processed by the application or stored for future use. This
validation may help prevent buffer overflows, but other techniques described here are not
used for buffer overflow prevention. String injection is actually something this helps to prevent, and schema validation looks at data to ensure that requests match a schema, but again
this is a narrower description than the broad range of input validation occurring in the
description.
53. C. WPA3 supports SAE, or simultaneous authentication of equals, providing a more secure
way to authenticate that limits the potential for brute-force attacks and allows individuals
to use different passwords. WPA is not as secure as WPA2, and WEP is the oldest, and least
secure, wireless security protocol.
54. A. In order to stop attack traffic, an IPS needs to be deployed inline. Deployments that use
a network tap receive a copy of the data without being in the flow of traffic, which makes
them ideal for detection but removes the ability to stop traffic. Deploying as an intrusion detection system (IDS) instead of an IPS means that the system will only detect, not
stop, attacks.
55. B. The correct answer is to use a sandboxed environment to test the malware and determine
its complete functionality. A sandboxed system could be an isolated virtual machine (VM) or
an actual physical machine that is entirely isolated from the network. Leaving the malware
on a production system is never the correct approach. You should test or analyze the malware to determine exactly what malware it is, allowing you to respond to the threat properly.
A honeypot is used for luring and trapping attackers, not for testing malware.
56. B. Hardening is the process of improving the security of an operating system or application.
One of the primary methods of hardening a trusted OS is to eliminate unneeded protocols.
This is also known as creating a secure baseline that allows the OS to run safely and securely.
FDE is full-disk encryption, a SED is a self-encrypting drive, and baselining is the process of
establishing security standards.
57. C. Although trust in the site is likely to be reduced because users will receive warnings, the
actual underlying encryption capabilities will not change. Users will not be redirected to the
certificate authority’s site, and if they click past the warnings, users will be able to continue
normally and with an encrypted connection.
58. D. Isaac knows that trusting client systems to be secure is not a good idea, and thus ensuring
that validation occurs on a trusted client is not an appropriate recommendation. Ensuring
that validation occurs on a trusted server, that client data is validated, and that data types
and ranges are reasonable are all good best practices for him to recommend.
59. C. Trusted Platform Modules (TPMs) provide a random number generator, the ability to
generate cryptographic keys, support for remote attestation as part of the boot process, as
well as binding and sealing capabilities. They do not act as cryptographic processors to speed
up Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TLS) traffic.
60. B. Hashing is commonly used in databases to increase the speed of indexing and retrieval
since it is typically faster to search for a hashed key rather than the original value stored in a
database. Hashing is not a form of encryption, meaning that it is not used to encrypt stored
data. Hashing is not used to obfuscate data or to substitute for sensitive data.
61. C. The correct answer is to only allow signed components to be loaded in the browser. Code
signing verifies the originator of the component (such as an ActiveX component) and thus
makes malware far less likely. Although host-based antimalware is a good idea, it is not the
best remedy for this specific threat. Blacklists cannot cover all sites that are infected—just the
sites you know about. And given that users on Hans’s network visit a lot of websites, blacklisting is likely to be ineffective. Finally, if you block all active content, many websites will be
completely unusable.
62. B. Zarmeena has implemented a preshared key, or PSK, authentication method. This means
that if she needs to change the key because a staff member leaves, she will need to have every
device update their passphrase. For larger deployments, enterprise authentication can connect

Chapter 3: Implementation

245

to an authentication and authorization service, allowing each user to authenticate as themselves. This also provides network administrators with a way to identify individual devices
by their authenticated user. Open networks do not require authentication, although a captive
portal can be used to require network users to provide information before they are connected
to the Internet.
63. A. EAP-FAST is specifically designed for organizations that want to quickly complete reconnections and does not require certificates to be installed at the endpoint device. EAP Tunneled Transport Layer Security (EAP-TTLS) requires client-side certificates; EAP-TLS requires
mutual authentication, which can be slower; and Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP) is similar to EAP-TTLS.
64. A. The correct answer is to implement a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI). If all the desktops are virtualized, then from a single central location you can manage patches, configuration, and software installation. This single implementation will solve all the issues mentioned
in the question. Restrictive policies are a good idea but are often difficult to enforce. Imaging
workstations will affect only their original configuration; it won’t keep them patched or prevent rogue software from being installed. Finally, strong patch management will address only
one of the three concerns.
65. B. Deploying to multiple locations is part of a high availability strategy that ensures that
losing a datacenter or datacenters in a single region, or loss of network connectivity to that
region, will not take an infrastructure down. This does not provide greater resistance to
insider attacks, lower costs, or vendor diversity.
66. B. A TLS-based VPN (often called an SSL-based VPN, despite SSL being outmoded) provides
the easiest way for users to use VPN since it does not require a client. SSL VPNs also work
only for specific applications rather than making a system appear as though it is fully on a
remote network. HTML5 is not a VPN technology, but some VPN portals may be built using
HTML5. Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is not a VPN technology. IPSec VPNs
require a client or configuration and are thus harder for end users to use in most cases.
67. C. These particular web application attacks are best mitigated with proper input validation.
Any user input should be checked for indicators of cross-site scripting (XSS) or SQL injection. Error handling is always important, but it won’t mitigate these particular issues. Stored
procedures can be a good way of ensuring SQL commands are standardized, but that won’t
prevent these attacks. Code signing is used for code that is downloaded from a web application to the client computer; it is used to protect the client, not the web application.
68. C. Isaac can configure a geofence that defines his corporate buildings and campus. He can
then set up a geofence policy that will only allow devices to work while they are inside that
geofenced area. Patch management, IP filtering, and network restrictions are not suitable
solutions for this.
69. B. Fuzzing is a technique whereby the tester intentionally enters incorrect values into input
fields to see how the application will handle it. Static code analysis tools simply scan the code
for known issues, baselining is the process of establishing security standards, and version
control simply tracks changes in the code—it does not test the code.

70. B. Although hardware security modules (HSMs) provide many cryptographic functions, they
are not used for boot attestation. A TPM, or Trusted Platform Module, is used for secure
boot attestation.
71. A. Cynthia should deploy Radio Frequency Identifier (RFID) cards, which can be read using
contactless readers. RFID technology is common and relatively inexpensive, but without
additional authentication, possession of a card is the only means of determining if someone is
authorized to access a building or room. Wi-Fi is not used for contactless cards because of its
power consumption and overhead. Magstripes require a reader rather than being contactless,
and HOTP is a form of one-time password system.
72. B. Rate limiting and back-off algorithms both limit how quickly queries can be performed.
Requiring authentication would restrict who could access the directory. Requiring LDAPS
(Lightweight Directory Access Protocol over SSL) does not prevent enumeration, but it does
provide security for the queried information as it transits networks.
73. D. A SAN, or Subject Alternate Name, certificate allows multiple hostnames to be protected
by the same certificate. It is not a type of certificate for SAN storage systems. A SAN certificate could be self-signed, but that does not make it a SAN certificate, and of course the security organization SANS is not a certificate authority.
74. A. The correct answer is to assign digital certificates to the authorized users and to use these
to authenticate them when logging in. This is an effective way to ensure that only authorized
users can access the application. Although the remaining options are all good security measures, they are not the best way to authenticate the client and prevent unauthorized access to
the application.
75. D. The correct answer is to first test patches. It is always possible that a patch might cause
issues for one or more current applications. This is particularly a concern with applications
that have a lot of interaction with the host operating system. An operating system patch
can prevent the application from executing properly. But as soon as the patches are tested,
a phased rollout to the company should begin. Automatic patching is not recommended in
corporate environments because a patch could possibly interfere with one or more applications—thus, a managed patch deployment process is implemented that requires more
administrative time but avoids outages due to patches with issues in an organization’s specific
environment. Having individual users patch their own machines is a bad idea and will lead to
inconsistent patching and the application of untested patches. Delegating patch management
to managers instead of IT staff can lead to problems, too, due to varying skillsets and
practices.
76. B. Although wireless analyzers provide in-depth information about Service Set Identifiers
(SSIDs), signal strength, and protocol versions, the Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) or Kerberos version number for the backend authentication servers is not
something that they will typically be able to provide.
77. B. The correct answer is to turn off any remote access to such devices that is not absolutely
needed. Many peripheral devices come with SSH (Secure Shell), Telnet, or similar services. If
you are not using them, turn them off. Many peripherals don’t have disks to encrypt, making
full-disk encryption (FDE) a less useful choice. Fuzz testing is used to test code, not devices,
and peripherals are unlikely to support digital certificates in most cases.

Chapter 3: Implementation

247

78. C. Manual code review is a type of static code review where reviewers read through source
code to attempt to find flaws in the code. Dynamic code review requires running the code,
Fagan testing is a formal code review process that works through multiple phases of the
development process, and fuzzing is a form of dynamic inspection that sends unexpected
values to a running program.
79. C. Samantha should place her public SSH key in the .ssh directory in her home directory
on the remote server. Private keys should never be outside of your control, and unlike many
Linux configurations, SSH keys are not kept in the /etc/directory.
80. C. The correct answer is to use static code analysis. Memory leaks are usually caused by
failure to deallocate memory that has been allocated. A static code analyzer can check to
see if all memory allocation commands (malloc, alloc, etc.) have a matching deallocation command. Fuzzing involves entering data that is outside expected values to see how the
application handles it. Stress testing involves testing how a system handles extreme workloads. Normalization is a technique for deduplicating a database.
81. D. Load balancers provide a virtual IP, or VIP. Traffic sent to the VIP is directed to servers
in the pool based on the load-balancing scheme that that pool is using—often a round-robin
scheme, but other versions that include priority order and capacity tracking or ratings are
also common. The load balancer’s IP address is normally used to administer the system, and
individual IP addresses for the clustered hosts are shielded by the load balancer to prevent
traffic from consistently going to those hosts, thus creating a failure or load point.
82. D. In a well-implemented password hashing scheme, unique random bits called salts are
added to each password before they are hashed. This makes generating a rainbow table
or otherwise brute-forcing hashes for all of the passwords stored in a database extremely
time-consuming. The remaining options were made up and are not actual security terms.
83. A. The correct answer is to use Secure Shell (SSH). This protocol is encrypted. SSH also
authenticates the user with public key cryptography. Telnet is insecure and does not encrypt
data. RSH, or Remote Shell, sends at least some data unencrypted and is also insecure.
SNMP, or Simple Network Management Protocol, is used to manage a network and is not
used for remote communications.
84. A. Resource-based policies are attached to resources and determine who has access to a
resource, such as a group of sysadmins or developers, and what actions they can perform on
the resource. Cloud services have different terms for monitoring their resource usage; these
terms may vary from service to service.
85. A. Networked sensor appliances are deployed in many datacenters to gather information
about temperature and humidity as part of the environmental monitoring system. Fire detection and suppression systems are not typically mounted in racks, and power quality and
reliability is measured by PDUs (power distribution units), UPS (uninterruptable power
supplies), and other power infrastructure.
86. C. Secure IMAP’s default port is TCP 993. Laurel can easily guess that the system offers a
TLS-protected version of IMAP for clients to use to retrieve email messages. The default port
for secure POP is 995, and for secure SMTP the default port is 587. S/MIME does not have a
specific port, as it is used to encrypt the content of email messages.

87. C. Ad hoc wireless networks operate in a point-to-point topology. Infrastructure mode
access points work in a point-to-multipoint topology. Star and bus models are used in
wired networks.
88. C. Only using code that is digitally signed verifies the creator of the software. For example,
if a printer/multifunction device (MFD) driver is digitally signed, this gives you confidence
that it really is a printer driver from the vendor it purports to be from, and not malware
masquerading as a printer driver. Signed software gives you a high degree of confidence that
it is not malware but does not provide a guarantee. For example, the infamous Flame virus
was signed with a compromised Microsoft digital certificate. Digital signing of software has
no effect on patch management. Finally, digitally signed software will not execute faster or
slower than unsigned software.
89. D. The Security+ exam refers to password managers as password vaults. Samantha should
recommend a password vault that will allow her users to generate, store, and use many passwords securely. None of the other options are good advice for password use and storage.
90. A. Port security filters by MAC address, allowing whitelisted MAC addresses to connect to
the port and blocking blacklisted MAC addresses. Port security can be static, using a predetermined list or dynamically allowing a specific number of addresses to connect, or it can be
run in a combination mode of both static and dynamic modes.
91. C. Authentication headers (AHs) provide complete packet integrity, authenticating the packet
and the header. Authentication headers do not provide any encryption at all, and authentication headers authenticate the entire packet, not just the header.
92. B. A split horizon DNS implementation deploys distinct DNS servers for two or more environments, ensuring that those environments receive DNS information appropriate to the
DNS view that their clients should receive. Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) is a DNS security set of specifications to help protect DNS data. DMZ DNS and DNS
proxying are not design patterns or common terms used in the security or networking field.
93. A. Network taps copy all traffic to another destination, allowing traffic visibility without
a device inline. They are completely passive methods of getting network traffic to a central
location. Port mirroring would get all the traffic to the network-based intrusion prevention
system (NIPS) but is not completely passive. It requires the use of resources on switches
to route a copy of the traffic. Incorrect switch configurations can cause looping. Configuring loop detection can prevent looped ports. Putting a network IPS on every segment can
be very expensive and require extensive configuration work. Option D is incorrect. This is
not the assignment. Setting up a NIPS on each segment would also dramatically increase
administrative efforts.
94. C. Federating RADIUS allows organizations to permit users from other partner organizations to authenticate against their home systems, and then be allowed on to the local organization’s network. An example of this is the eduroam federation used by higher education
institutions to permit students, faculty, and staff to use college networks anywhere they go
where eduroam is in place. Preshared keys are determined by the location organization and
would not permit enterprise credentials from other organizations to be used. OpenID is used
for web authentication, and 802.11q is a trunking protocol.

Chapter 3: Implementation

249

95. C. Context-aware authentication can take into account information like geolocation to
ensure that the devices can only be logged into when they are inside of the facility’s boundaries. That means the devices will only be useful on-site and can help protect the data and
applications on the devices. Neither PINs nor biometrics can do this, and content-aware
authentication was made up for this question.
96. B. A TPM, or Trusted Platform Module, is a secure cryptoprocessor used to provide a
hardware root of trust for systems. They enable secure boot and boot attestation capabilities, and include a random number generator, the ability to generate cryptographic keys for
specific uses, and the ability to bind and seal data used for processes the TPM supports.
97. B. Internet key exchange (IKE) is used to set up security associations (SAs) on each end of
the tunnel. The security associations have all the settings (i.e., cryptographic algorithms,
hashes) for the tunnel. IKE is not directly involved in encrypting or authenticating. IKE itself
does not establish the tunnel—it establishes the SAs.
98. A. A root certificate is the base certificate that signs an entire certificate chain. A common
security practice to protect these incredibly important certificates is to keep the root certificate and CA offline to prevent the potential of compromise or exposure. Machine/computer,
user, and email certificates are deployed and used throughout organizations and, since they
are used on a frequent basis, aren’t likely be to kept offline.
99. A. The NIPS is not seeing the traffic on that network segment. By implementing port
mirroring, the traffic from that segment can be copied to the segment where the NIPS is
installed. Installing a network IPS on the segment would require additional resources. This
would work but is not the most efficient approach. Nothing in this scenario suggests that
the NIPS is inadequate. It just is not seeing all the traffic. Finally, isolating the segment to its
own VLAN would isolate that network segment but would still not allow the NIPS to analyze the traffic from that segment.
100. B. Tokenization is used to protect data by substituting tokens for sensitive data without
changing the length or data type. This allows databases to handle the data in the same way
as it was prior to tokenization, ensuring that existing software will not run into problems
due to the data being changed. Encryption provides similar protection but will normally
change either the data length, the data type, or both. Hashing is one-way, which means it is
not a good fit for many scenarios where tokenization or encryption will protect data. Rotation is not a security method used for this type of work.
101. A. Elenora could deploy a log aggregator at each location to collect and aggregate the logs.
Log collection and aggregation systems can then filter unneeded log entries, compress the
logs, and forward desired logs to a central security system like a security information and
event management (SIEM) or other log analysis collection and analysis tool. A honeypot
acts like a desirable target, luring attackers in to capture data about their attacks. A bastion
host is designed to resist attacks and normally provides a single service to the network on
which it resides.
102. D. Fuzzing is an automated, dynamic software testing technique that sends unexpected and
often invalid data to a program to test how it responds. The software is monitored to see
how it responds to the input, providing additional assurance that the program has proper

error handling and input validation built in. Timeboxing is an agile project management
technique; buffer overflows may occur as part of fuzzing, but are not the only technique
used or described here; and input validation can help stop fuzzing from causing problems
for an application by preventing out-of-bounds or unwanted data from being accepted.
103. B. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) snooping can be set up on switches to
monitor for and stop rogue DHCP traffic from unknown servers. Disabling DHCP snooping would remove this feature. Intrusion detection systems (IDSs) cannot stop traffic, and
blocking DHCP traffic would prevent systems from acquiring dynamic IP addresses.
104. B. Endpoint detection and response (EDR) focuses on identifying anomalies and issues, but
it is not designed to be a malware analysis tool. Instead, the ability to search and explore
data, identify suspicious activities, and coordinate responses is what makes up an EDR tool.
105. A. A web proxy can be used to block certain websites. It is common practice for network
administrators to block either individual sites or general classes of sites (like job-hunting
sites). Network address translation (NAT) is used to translate the private IP addresses of
internal computers to public IP addresses. A packet filter firewall can block traffic on a
given port or IP address or using a particular protocol, but generally they are not able to
block specific websites. Network-based intrusion prevention systems (NIPSs) identify and
block attacks; they cannot prevent users from visiting specific websites.
106. C. Secrets management services provide the ability to store sensitive data like application
programming interface (API) keys, passwords, and certificates. They also provide the ability
to manage, retrieve, and audit those secrets. A public key infrastructure (PKI) would focus
on certificates and encryption keys, without passwords or API keys. A Trusted Platform
Module (TPM) is associated with hardware, and a hush service was made up for this
question.
107. A. SAML, the Security Assertion Markup Language, is used by many identity providers to
exchange authorization and authentication data with service providers. Kerberos and LDAP
(Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) are used inside many organizations, but Fred will
find more success with SAML for popular web services. New Technology LAN Manager
(NTLM) remains in use for Windows systems, but Kerberos is more commonly used for
modern Windows domains and would not be used in the scenario described here.
108. D. Load balancing the cluster will prevent any single server from being overloaded. And if a
given server is offline, other servers can take on its workload. Option A is incorrect.
A VPN concentrator, as the name suggests, is used to initiate virtual private networks
(VPNs). Option B is incorrect. Aggregate switching can shunt more bandwidth to the
servers but won’t mitigate the threat of one or more servers being offline. Option C is incorrect. SSL accelerators are a method of offloading processor-intensive public-key encryption for Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) to a hardware
accelerator.
109. C. The three channels that do not overlap are 1, 6, and 11. The rest of the channels will
overlap. In an ideal installation, these three channels can be used to maximize throughput
and minimize interference.

Chapter 3: Implementation

251

110. B. The correct answer is to encrypt all the web traffic to this application using Transport
Layer Security (TLS). This is one of the most fundamental security steps to take with any
website. A web application firewall (WAF) is probably a good idea, but it is not the most
important thing for Ryan to implement. While a network-based intrusion prevention system
(IPS) or intrusion detection system (IDS) may be a good idea, those should be considered
after TLS is configured.
111. B. Infrared (IR) is the only line-of-sight method on the list. Although Near-Field Communication (NFC) and Bluetooth have a relatively short range, they can still operate through
materials placed between them and the receiver, and Wi-Fi can do so at an even longer
range.
112. A. The correct answer is that Kerberos uses various tickets, each with a time limit. The service tickets are typically only good for 5 minutes or less. This means that if the Network
Time Protocol (NTP) is failing, valid tickets may appear to be expired. RADIUS, CHAP, and
LDAP will not have any significant effect due to NTP failure.
113. C. The correct answer is that Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) periodically has the client reauthenticate. This is transparent to the user but is done specifically
to prevent session hijacking. Password Authentication Protocol (PAP) is actually quite old
and does not reauthenticate. In fact, it even sends the password in cleartext, so it should not
be used any longer. SPAP (Shiva Password Authentication Protocol) adds password encryption to PAP but does not reauthenticate. OAuth is used in web authentication and does not
reauthenticate.
114. B. A software firewall is best suited to deployments to individual machines, particularly
when endpoint systems are being protected. Hardware firewalls are typically deployed
to protect network segments or groups of systems, and result in additional expense and
management. Virtual and cloud firewalls are most often deployed in datacenters where
virtual or cloud environments are in use, although a virtual firewall could be run on an
endpoint.
115. D. A service account is the most appropriate in this scenario. Service accounts are given the
least privileges the service needs and are used by the service, without the need for a human
user. Although you could assign a user account, it is not as good a solution as using a service account. A guest account would never be a good idea for a service. Guest accounts are
typically too limited. It’s common practice to disable default accounts such as the Guest
account. An admin account would give too many privileges to the service and violate the
principle of least privileges.
116. A. Of these versions of Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP), only Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol (LEAP) does not support TLS. EAP Tunneled Transport Layer
Security (EAP-TTLS) actually extends TLS, but supports the underlying protocol. Protected
Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP) encapsulates EAP within an encrypted TLS
tunnel.

117. C. Jailbreaking allows users to add software to an iPhone that isn’t normally allowed,
including third-party applications, changing system settings, themes, or default applications.
Third-party application stores aren’t available by default, and side-loading can be accomplished in iOS but doesn’t do what Manny wants it to, and of course installing Android
won’t let Manny change iOS settings. If Manny does jailbreak his phone, his organization
may notice if they’re using a mobile device management (MDM) or unified endpoint
management (UEM) application to track the status of the device.
118. C. Many smartcards implement Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) to allow them to be
used for entry access and other purposes. Wi-Fi, Infrared, and Bluetooth generally require
powered circuits to interact with systems, making them a poor fit for a smartcard that does
not typically have a battery or other power source.
119. A. Mandatory access control (MAC) is the correct solution. It will not allow lower
privileged users to even see the data at a higher privilege level. Discretionary access control
(DAC) has each data owner configure his or her own security. Role-based access control
(RBAC) could be configured to meet the needs, but it’s not the best solution for these
requirements. Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is not an access control model.
120. B. An agent-based, preadmission system will provide greater insight into the configuration
of the system using the agent, and using a preadmission model will allow the system configuration to be tested before the system is allowed to connect to the network. Agentless
NAC uses scanning and/or network inventory techniques and will typically not have as
deep a level of insight into the configuration and software versions running on a system.
Postadmission systems make enforcement decisions based on what users do after they gain
admission to a network, rather than prior to gaining admission, allowing you to quickly
rule out two of these options.
121. C. Claire’s best option is to deploy a detection and fix via her web application firewall
(WAF) that will detect the SQL injection attempt and prevent it. An intrusion detection
system (IDS) only detects attacks and cannot stop them. Manually updating the application
code after reverse-engineering it will take time, and she may not even have the source code
or the ability to modify it. Finally, vendor patches for zero days typically take some time to
come out even in the best of circumstances, meaning that Claire could be waiting on a patch
for quite a while if that is the option she chooses.
122. C. CYOD, or choose your own device, allows users to choose a device that is corporate
owned and paid for. Choices may be limited to set of devices, or users may be allowed to
choose essentially any device depending on the organization’s deployment decisions. BYOD
allows users to bring their own device, whereas COPE, or corporate-owned, personally
enabled, provides devices to users that they can then use for personal use. VDI uses a virtual
desktop infrastructure as an access layer for any security model where specialized needs or
security requirements may require access to remote desktop or application services.
123. B. The key element here is that the certificate authorities (CA) are operating in a mesh,
meaning no CA is the root CA and that each must trust the others. To accomplish this,
Derek first needs to issue certificates from D to each of the other Cas and then have the
others issue D a certificate. Private keys should never be exchanged, and of course if he only
has the other systems issue D certificates, they won’t recognize his server.

Chapter 3: Implementation

253

124. C. If Claire is using Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) to manage and monitor her network devices, she should make sure she is using SNMPv3 and that it is properly
configured. SNMPv3 can provide information about the status and configuration of her
network devices. Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) might be used to
authenticate to the network, but Transport Layer Security (TLS) and SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) are not specifically used for the purposes described.
125. D. Fuzzers send unexpected and out of range data to applications to see how they will
respond. In this case, Ben is using a fuzzer. Web proxies are often used to do application
testing because they allow data to be changed between the browser and the application.
SQL injection may be done via a web proxy, but a dedicated SQL injection proxy is not a
type of tool by itself. Finally, a static code review tool is used to review source code and may
be as simple as a Notepad application or as complex as a fully integrated development environment (IDE).
126. B. Containerization will allow Eric’s company’s tools and data to be run inside of an
application-based container, isolating the data and programs from the self-controlled bring
your own device (BYOD) devices. Storage segmentation can be helpful, but the operating
system itself as well as the applications would remain a concern. Eric should recommend
full-device encryption (FDE) as a security best practice, but encrypting the container and the
data it contains can provide a reasonable security layer even if the device itself is not fully
encrypted. Remote wipe is helpful if devices are lost or stolen, but the end user may not be
okay with having the entire device wiped, and there are ways to work around remote wipes,
including blocking cellular and Wi-Fi signals.
127. B. Kerberos does not send the users password across the network. When the user’s name is
sent to the authentication service, the service retrieves the hash of the user’s password from
the database, and then uses that as a key to encrypt data to be sent back to the user. The
user’s machine takes the password that the user entered, hashes it, and then uses that as a
key to decrypt what was sent back by the server. Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) sends the user’s password in an encrypted form. RBAC is an access control
model, not an authentication protocol. Type II authentication is something you have, such
as a key or card.
128. A. EV, or extended validation, certificates prove that the X.509 certificate has been issued
to the correct legal entity. In addition, only specific certificate authorities (Cas) can issue
EV certificates. Domain-validated certificates require proof that you have control of the
domain, such as setting the DNS TXT record or responding to an email sent to a contact in
the domain’s Whois record. An organizational validation certificate requires either domain
validation and additional proof that the organization is a legal entity. OCSP certificates
were made up for this question.
129. D. Wi-Fi 5 networks can provide theoretical throughput up to 3.5 Gbps megabits per second, although newer standards like Wi-Fi 6 continue to push this higher. The next fastest
wireless standard listed is LTE cellular with theoretical throughputs around 50 megabits per
second. When bandwidth is important, Wi-Fi will tend to win, although 5G cellular
networks under ideal conditions may rival Wi-Fi.

130. C. The cost of applications and the quality of the security implementation can vary based
on the vendor and product, but cloud-native security solutions will generally have better
and deeper integration into the cloud platform than third-party solutions will. Vendor diversity in designs may still drive other choices, but those are conscious design decisions.
131. D. Jump boxes are a common solution for providing access to a network with a different
security profile. In this case, Ed can deploy a jump box in the demilitarized zone (DMZ)
to allow users within his administrative zone to perform tasks without directly connecting to
the world-exposed DMZ. This helps keep administrative systems secure and allows
him to focus on the security of the jump box, while also making it easier to monitor and
maintain. An intrusion prevention system (IPS) is used to monitor and block unwanted
traffic, but isn’t used for remote access. A NAT gateway performs network address translation and is placed between networks but is not typically used to provide secure connections
between networks. Instead, it serves to reduce the number of public IP addresses used and to
provide some limited security for systems behind it. Routers are used to connect to networks
but are not used to provide secure access as described in the question.
132. C. OAuth (Open Authorization) is an open standard for token-based authentication and
authorization on the Internet and allows an end user’s account information to be used by
third-party services, without exposing the user’s password. Kerberos is a network authentication protocol and not used for cross-domain/service authentication. Security Assertion
Markup Language (SAML) is an XML-based, open-standard data format for exchanging
authentication and authorization data between parties. OpenID is an authentication service often provided by a third party, and it can be used to sign into any website that accepts
OpenID. It would be possible for this to work, but only with websites that support OpenID,
so it is not as good a solution as OAuth.
133. A. Session persistence makes sure that all of a client’s traffic for a transaction or session
goes to the same server or service. The remaining options do not properly describe how
session persistence works.
134. B. Data loss prevention (DLP) tools allow sensitive data to be tagged and monitored so
that if a user attempts to send it, they will be notified, administrators will be informed, and
if necessary, the data can be protected using encryption or other protection methods before
it is sent. Full-disk encryption (FDE) would protect data at rest, and S/MIME and POP3S
would protect mail being retrieved from a server but would not prevent the SSNs from
being sent.
135. B. While infrastructure as a service (IaaS) vendors often provide strong support for high
availability, including replication to multiple geographic zones or regions, as well as highly
reliable and secure storage, they do not allow direct access to the underlying hardware in
most instances. If Jennifer requires direct access to hardware, she will need to deploy to a
datacenter where she can retain access to the physical servers.
136. B. Out-of-band (OOB) management uses separate management interfaces, as shown in the
figure, or a different connectivity method than the normal connection to provide a secure
means of managing systems. A DMZ, or demilitarized zone, is a security zone that is typically exposed to the world and is thus less trusted and more exposed. In-band management

Chapter 3: Implementation

255

uses common protocols like Secure Shell (SSH) or HTTPS to manage devices via their
normal interfaces or network connections. Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a security protocol, not a management interface.
137. A. Key escrow provides encryption keys to a third party so that they can be released to an
appropriate party if certain conditions are met. Although this means that the keys are out
of the control of the owning or responsible party, in many cases the need to have a recoverable or accessible way to get to the keys overrides the requirement to keep the keys in a
single individual or organization’s hands. The remaining options were made up, but you
may encounter the term “key recovery,” which is a process where law enforcement or other
parties may recover keys when needed using a process that provides them with an access
key or decryption key that may not be the same key as the key used by the original
encryption user.
138. D. Boot attestation requires systems to track and measure the boot process and to then
attest to a system that the process was secure. Secure boot, which is a related concept,
allows only trusted software to be run using previously hashed values to ensure the process
is secure. BOOTP and BIOS are not involved in this process, instead, Unified Extensible
Firmware Interface (UEFI) firmware supports both secure boot and boot attestation.
139. A. The correct answer is that OpenID is an authentication service often done by a third
party, and it can be used to sign into any website that accepts OpenID. Kerberos is a network authentication protocol for use within a domain. New Technology LAN Manager
(NTLM) is an older Windows authentication protocol. Shibboleth is a single sign-on system,
but it works with federated systems.
140. C. Disabling remote registry access for systems that do not require it can prevent remote
registry modification and reads. This is a recommended best practice whenever possible,
but some systems may require remote registry access for management or other reasons. The
Windows registry is not independently patched, the registry needs to be readable and writable to have a functional Windows system, and there is no mode that encrypts user keys.
141. D. Maximizing coverage overlap would cause greater contention between access points.
Instead, installations should minimize overlap without leaving dead spots in important
areas. Performing a site survey, controlling power levels and adjusting them to minimize
contention, and designing around the construction materials of a building are all important parts of designing the physical layout and placement of WAPs. Fortunately, modern
enterprise wireless networks have advanced intelligent features that help do many of these
things somewhat automatically.
142. B. Disabling the account is the best option to meet Mark’s needs. Disabling an account will
leave it in a different state than an active account or one with a changed password, which
should be noted by support staff if Gabby called and asked to change her password. That
means that there is less risk of a disgruntled employee or an attacker successfully gaining
access to the account. At the same time, disabling is less destructive than deleting the
account, making it faster to restore and preserving her files and other materials. Most organizations will choose to have a time limit for how long an account can be in a disabled state
without review or moving to another account state to help ensure that disabled accounts do
not build up over time.

143. A. Attribute-based access control (ABAC) looks at a group of attributes, in addition to the
login username and password, to make decisions about whether or not to grant access. One
of the attributes examined is the location of the person. Since the users in this company
travel frequently, they will often be at new locations, and that might cause ABAC to reject
their logins. Wrong passwords can certainly prevent login, but are not specific to ABAC.
ABAC does not prevent remote access, and a firewall can be configured to allow, or prohibit, any traffic you wish.
144. B. Single Sign-On (SSO) is designed specifically to address this risk and would be the most
helpful. Users have only a single logon to remember; thus, they have no need to write down
the password. OAuth (Open Authorization) is an open standard for token-based authentication and authorization on the Internet. It does not eliminate the use or need for multiple
passwords. Multifactor authentication helps prevent risks due to lost passwords, but does
not remove the need for multiple passwords by itself. Security Assertion Markup Language
(SAML) and Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) do not stop users from needing
to remember multiple passwords.
145. D. Rule-based access control applies a set of rules to an access request. Based on the application of the rules, the user may be given access to a specific resource that they were not
explicitly granted permission to. MAC, DAC, and role-based access control wouldn’t give a
user access unless that user has already been explicitly given that access.
146. B. Segmentation needs between multiple cloud virtual datacenters, the cost of operating the
firewall service, and the visibility into traffic provided by the cloud service provider are all
design elements Ed will need to consider. He won’t, however, need to worry about hardware
access for updates. Instead, he is likely to either use a virtual cloud appliance or built-in firewall functionality provided by the cloud infrastructure service provider.
147. B. Tokens are physical devices that often contain cryptographic data for authentication.
They can store digital certificates for use with authentication. OAuth (Open Authorization)
is an open standard for token-based authentication and authorization on the Internet. The
user still must remember a password. OpenID is a third-party authentication service, and
just as with OAuth, the user also still must remember a password. Role-based access control and rule-based access control (which both use the acronym RBAC) are access control
models.
148. A. Internal services like this are part of an intranet, a network, or website only accessible
to individuals and systems inside of a company. Extranets are private networks that allow
access to partners or customers, but not to the general public. A demilitarized zone (DMZ)
is a network segment exposed to the Internet or another untrusted network. A TTL is a network term that means time to live, and it determines how many hops a packet can make
before it is no longer able to be sent to another hop.
149. B. This question describes a stateless firewall, which looks at every packet to make
decisions about what will be allowed through it. Stateful firewalls pay attention the conversations and allow packets in a conversation between devices to pass through once it has
verified the initial exchange. Next-generation firewalls (NGFWs) build in a wide variety of
security services. Application-layer firewalls understand applications that run through them
and provide deeper packet analysis capabilities to block unwanted application layer traffic.

Chapter 3: Implementation

257

150. C. Hardware security modules are available as smartcards, microSD cards, and USB thumb
drives in addition to their frequent deployment as appliances in enterprise use. Nancy could
purchase a certified and tested MicroSD card–based HSM that would protect her keys in
a secure way. An application-based public key infrastructure (PKI) would not provide the
same level of security on most mobile devices without specially designed hardware, which
is not mentioned in this problem. OPAL is a hardware-based encryption standard and does
not provide key management, and an offline certificate authority (CA) would not help in
this circumstance.
151. D. Both the Windows and Linux filesystems work based on a discretionary access control
scheme where file and directory owners can determine who can access, change, or otherwise
work with files under their control. Role-based access controls systems determine rights
based on roles that are assigned to users. Rule-based access control systems use a series of
rules to determine which actions can occur, and mandatory access control systems enforce
control at the operating system level.
152. A. Restricting each faculty account so that it is only usable when that particular faculty
member is typically on campus will prevent someone from logging in with that account
after hours, even if they have the password. Usage auditing may detect misuse of accounts
but will not prevent it. Longer passwords are effective security, but a longer password
can still be stolen. Credential management is always a good idea, but it won’t address this
specific issue.
153. D. Although next-generation firewalls provide may defensive capabilities, SQL injection is
an attack instead of a defense. In addition to geolocation, intrusion detection system (IDS)
and intrusion prevention system (IPS), and sandboxing capabilities, many next-generation
firewalls include web application firewalls, load balancing, IP reputation and URL filtering,
and antimalware and antivirus features.
154. C. Enabling storm control on a switch will limit the amount of total bandwidth that broadcast packets can use, preventing broadcast storms from taking down the network. Blocking
Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) would prevent systems from finding each other, and
blocking all broadcast packets would also block many important network features.
155. B. Demilitarized zones (DMZs) remain a useful concept when designing cloud environments, although the technical implementation may vary, since cloud providers may have
secure web services, load-balancing capabilities or other features that make DMZs look
different. Proxy servers are useful for controlling, filtering, and relaying traffic, but they do
not provide the full segmentation that Isaac is looking for. A VPC is a virtual datacenter and
will typically contain his infrastructure but does not specifically address these needs.
156. A. A permissions audit will find what permissions each user has and compare that to their
job requirements. Permission audits should be conducted periodically. Job rotation, though
beneficial for other security reasons, will actually exacerbate this problem. It is impractical
to forbid anyone from ever changing job roles, and separation of duties would have no
impact on this issue.

157. B. Susan’s best option is to deploy full-disk encryption (FDE), which will ensure that the
entire drive is encrypted, rather than just specific folders or files. Degaussing magnetic
drives will wipe them, rather than protecting data.
158. C. Password complexity requires that passwords have a mixture of uppercase letters,
lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters. This would be the best approach to
correct the problem described in the question. Longer passwords are a good security measure but will not correct the issue presented here. Changing passwords won’t make those
passwords any stronger, and Single Sign-On (SSO) will have no effect on the strength of
passwords.
159. D. WPA3’s Personal mode replaces the preshared key mode found in WPA2 with simultaneous authentication of equals. This makes weak passphrase or password attacks harder
to conduct and allows for greater security when devices are conducting their initial key
exchange. WEP, WPA, and WPA2 do not implement SAE.
160. C. Megan has created a guest account. Guest accounts typically have very limited privileges
and may be set up with limited login hours, an expiration date, or other controls to help
keep them more secure. User accounts are the most common type of account and are issued
to individuals to allow them to log into and use systems and services. Shared accounts are
used by more than one person, making it difficult to determine who used the account.
A service account is typically associated with a program or service running on a system that
requires rights to files or other resources.
161. B. API keys allow individual customers to authenticate to the API service, which means
that if there is a problem Henry can disable the problematic API keys rather than all users.
Enabling logging using a service like Amazon’s API Gateway allows scalability, logging, and
monitoring, as well as tools like web application firewalls. An API proxy and API-centric
intrusion prevention system (IPS) were made up for this question.
162. C. UTM, or unified threat management, devices commonly serve as firewalls, intrusion
detection system (IDS)/intrusion prevention system (IPS), antivirus, web proxies, web application and deep packet inspection, secure email gateways, data loss prevention (DLP), security information and event management (SIEM), and even virtual private networking (VPN)
devices. They aren’t mobile device management (MDM) or universal endpoint management
devices, however, since their primary focus is on network security, not systems or device
management.
163. B. Mandatory access control (MAC) is based on documented security levels associated with
the information being accessed. Role-based access control (RBAC) is based on the role the
user is placed in. Discretionary access control (DAC) lets the data owner set access control.
BAC is not an access control model.
164. A. This image shows a forward proxy, which can be used to apply policies to user requests
sent to web servers and other services. Reverse proxies act as gateways between users and
application servers, allowing content caching and traffic manipulation. They are often used
by content delivery networks to help with traffic management.

Chapter 3: Implementation

259

165. B. This type of potential security issue is typically recorded as an impossible travel time/
risky login issue. Gurvinder would not expect the user to have traveled between two locations in an hour—in fact, it is impossible to do so. That means he needs to contact the user
to find out if they may have done something like use a VPN, or if their account may be
compromised. It is possible this could be an issue with the geo-IP system that Gurvinder’s
company uses, but he needs to treat it like a security risk until he determines otherwise, and
a compromise is more likely in most cases. A misconfigured IP address would not cause this
issue.
166. A. Discretionary access control (DAC) allows data owners to assign permissions. Rolebased access control (RBAC) assigns access based on the role the user is in. Mandatory
access control (MAC) is stricter and enforces control at the OS level. Attribute-cased
access control (ABAC) considers various attributes such as location, time, and computer in
addition to username and password.
167. A. OS hardening is the process of securing an operating system by patching, updating, and
configuring the operating system to be secure. Configuration management is the ongoing
process of managing configurations for systems, rather than this initial security step. Both
security uplift and endpoint lockdown were made up for this question.
168. D. Secure Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAPS) uses port 636 by default. DNS
uses port 53, LDAP uses 389, and secure HTTP uses port 443.
169. C. The best answer for the needs Chris has identified is a hardware security module, or
HSM. HSMs can act as a cryptographic key manager, including creating, storing, and
securely handling encryption keys and certificates. They can also act as cryptographic
accelerators, helping offload encryption functions like Transport Layer Security (TLS)
encryption. A TPM (Trusted Platform Module) is a device used to store keys for a system
but does not offload cryptoprocessing, and it is used for keys on a specific system rather
than broader uses. CPUs and GPUs may have cryptographic acceleration functions, but they
do not securely store or manage certificates and other encryption artifacts.
170. D. A host-based intrusion prevention system (HIPS) can monitor network traffic to identify attacks, suspicious behavior, and known bad patterns using signatures. A firewall
stops traffic based on rules; antimalware tools are specifically designed to stop malware,
not attacks and suspicious network behavior; and a host-based intrusion detection system
(HIDS) can only detect, not stop, these behaviors.
171. B. Role-based access control (RBAC) grants permissions based on the user’s position within
the organization. Mandatory access control (MAC) uses security classifications to grant
permissions. Discretionary access control (DAC) allows data owners to set permissions.
Attribute-based access control (ABAC) considers various attributes such as location, time,
and computer, in addition to username and password.
172. B. Measured boot provides a form of boot attestation that records information about each
component loaded during the boot process. This information can then be reported to a
server for validation. Trusted boot validates each component against a known signature.
Measured boot does not care about the time to boot up, nor does it update the system’s
Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

173. D. The key distribution center (KDC) issues tickets. The tickets are generated by the
ticket-granting service, which is usually part of the KDC. The authentication service simply
authenticates the user, X.509 certificates and certificate authorities are not part of Kerberos,
and the ticket-granting service does generate the ticket but the KDC issues it.
174. C. Although patching devices is important, the most effective way to protect devices from
being attacked via administrative account brute forcing is to place the devices on a separate management virtual LAN (VLAN) and then control access to that VLAN. This will
prevent most attackers from being able to connect to the device’s administrative interfaces.
Disabling administrative access may not be possible, and even if it was, it would create
significant problems when the devices needed to have changes made on them.
175. A. While mobile device management (MDM) and unified endpoint management (UEM)
tools provide many capabilities, carrier unlock status normally needs to be checked with the
carrier if you want to validate corporate-owned phones without manually checking each
device.
176. A. Zero-trust environments typically have a more complex network due to increased
segmentation to isolate systems and devices that have different security contexts. Zero-trust
networks also require strong identity and access management, and they use applicationaware firewalls extensively to preserve least privilege. Of course, logging and analysis of
security events is necessary to ensure that issues are identified and responded to.
177. A. Digital certificates use the X.509 standard (or the PGP standard) and allow the user to
digitally sign authentication requests. OAuth allows an end user’s account information to
be used by third-party services, without exposing the user’s password. It does not use digital
certificates or support digital signing. Kerberos does not use digital certificates, nor does it
support digitally signing. Smartcards can contain digital certificates but don’t necessarily
have to have them.
178. C. SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language) is an Extensible Markup Language
(XML) framework for creating and exchanging security information between partners
online. The integrity of users is the weakness in the SAML identity chain. To mitigate this
risk, SAML systems need to use timed sessions, HTTPS, and SSL/TLS. LDAP (Lightweight
Directory Access Protocol) is a protocol that enables a user to locate individuals and other
resources such as files and devices in a network. Terminal Access Controller Access Control
System Plus (TACACS+) is a protocol that is used to control access into networks.
TACACS+ provides authentication and authorization in addition to an accounting of access
requests against a central database. Transitive trust is a two-way relationship that is automatically created between a parent and a child domain in a Microsoft Active Directory
(AD) forest. It shares resources with its parent domain by default and enables an authenticated user to access resources in both the child and parent domains.
179. C. UEM, or unified endpoint management, manages desktop, laptops, mobile devices,
printers, and other types of devices. Mobile device management (MDM) tools focus on
mobile devices.

Chapter 3: Implementation

261

180. B. Host-based firewalls are the first step in most designs when protecting against networkborne threats. They can prevent unwanted traffic from entering or leaving the host, leaving
less traffic for a host-based intrusion prevention system (HIPS) or other tools to analyze.
Full-disk encryption (FDE) will not stop network-borne threats, and antivirus focuses on
prevention of malware, not network threats like denial of service or exploitation of vulnerable services.
181. A. Security groups are a virtual firewall for instances, allowing rules to be applied to traffic
between instances. Dynamic resource allocation is a concept that allows resources to be
applied as they are needed, including scaling up and down infrastructure and systems on the
fly. Virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoints are a way to connect to services inside of a cloud
provider without an Internet gateway. Finally, instance awareness is a concept that means
that tools know about the differences between instances, rather than treating each instance
in a scaling group as the same. This can be important during incident response processes
and security monitoring for scaled groups, where resources may all appear identical without
instance awareness.
182. D. Although built-in update tools will handle the operating system, additional software
installed on systems needs to be patched separately. Third-party software and firmware,
including the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) or BIOS of the systems that
are deployed in Derek’s organization, will need regular updates. Many organizations adopt
patch management platforms or system management platforms with patching capabilities to
ensure that this occurs on a broader basis than just OS patches.
183. A. IDSs, or intrusion detection systems, can only detect unwanted and malicious traffic
based on the detection rules and signatures that they have. They cannot stop traffic or
modify it. An IPS, or intrusion prevention system, that is placed inline with network traffic
can take action on that traffic. Thus, IDSs are often used when it is not acceptable to
block network traffic, or when a tap or other network device is used to clone traffic for
inspection.
184. C. Although insider threats are a concern, they’re not any different for containers than any
other system. Ensuring container host security, securing the management stack, and making
sure that network traffic to and from containers is secure are all common container security
concerns.
185. C. Network address translation (NAT) gateways allow internal IP addresses to be hidden
from the outside, preventing direct connections to systems behind them. This effectively
firewalls inbound traffic unless the gateway is set to pass traffic to an internal host when a
specific IP, port, and protocol is used. They are not a firewall in the traditional sense, however, and do not specifically statefully block traffic by port and protocol, nor do they detect
malicious traffic. Finally, NAT gateways are not used to send non-IP traffic out to IP networks.
186. C. Conditional access assesses specific conditions to make a determination about whether
to allow an account to access a resource. The system may choose to allow access, to block
access, or to apply additional controls based on the conditions that are present and the
information that is available about the login.

187. B. If the system maintains a password history, that would prevent any user from reusing an
old password. Password complexity and length are common security settings but would not
prevent the behavior described. Multifactor authentication helps prevent brute-force attacks
and reduces the potential impact of stolen passwords but would not help with this scenario.
188. D. Bridge Protocol Data Unit, or BDPU, guard protects network infrastructure by preventing unknown devices from participating in spanning tree. That prevents a new switch added
by a user from claiming to be the root bridge (in this case, Switch C), which would normally cause a topology change and for traffic to be sent to Switch X, an undesirable result.
802.11n is a wireless protocol, and the remaining options were made up for this question.
189. A. The net user command allows this control to be put in place. Although you may not
be familiar with the many net user commands, you can take out unrealistic
commands or commands with flaws in them. For example, here you could likely guess
that -working-hours isn’t a defined term. In the same way, login isn’t a Windows
command, but net commands are commonly used to control Windows systems.
190. A. Auditing and reviewing how users actually utilize their account permissions would be
the best way to determine if there is any inappropriate use. A classic example would be a
bank loan officer. By the nature of their job, they have access to loan documents. But they
should not be accessing loan documents for loans they are not servicing. The issue in this
case is not permissions, because the users require permission to access the data. The issue is
how the users are using their permissions. Usage auditing and permissions auditing are both
part of account maintenance, but auditing and review is a better answer. Finally, this is not a
policy issue.
191. B. A scenario such as guest Wi-Fi access does not provide the logins with any access to
corporate resources. The people logging in merely get to access the Internet. This poses
very limited security risk to the corporate network and thus is often done with a common
or shared account. Tech support personnel generally have significant access to corporate
network resources. Although this is a relatively low access scenario, it is still important to
know which specific student is logging on and accessing what resources. Any level of access
to corporate resources should have its own individual login account.
192. B. Certificate chains list certificates and certificate authority (CA) certificates, allowing
those who receive the certificate to validate that the certificates can be trusted. An invalid,
or broken, chain means that the user or system that is checking the certificate chaining
should not trust the system and certificate.
193. D. 802.1X is the IEEE standard for port-based network access control. This protocol is
frequently used to authenticate devices. Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol
(CHAP) is an authentication protocol but not the best choice for device authentication.
Kerberos is an authentication protocol but not the best choice for device authentication.
802.11i is the Wi-Fi security standard and is fully implemented in WPA2 and WPA3. It is
not a device authentication procedure.
194. A. WPA2 uses the AES-based CCMP, or Counter Mode Block Chaining Message Authentication (CBC-MAC) Protocol to encapsulate traffic, providing confidentiality. WPA3 also
uses CCMP as the minimum acceptable encryption in WPA3-Personal mode. WEP, infrared,
and Bluetooth do not use CCMP.

Chapter 3: Implementation

263

195. A. Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) would give an attacker a great deal of
information about your network. SNMP should not be exposed to unprotected networks,
SNMPv3 should be implemented, and SNMP security best practices should be followed.
Both POP3 and IMAP are email access protocols, and Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is used to hand out dynamic IP addresses.
196. C. Accounts should lock out after a small number of login attempts. Three is a common
number of attempts before the account is locked out. This prevents someone from just
attempting random guesses. Password aging will force users to change their passwords but
won’t affect password guessing. Longer passwords would be harder to guess, but this option
is not as effective as account lockout policies. Account usage auditing won’t have any effect
on this issue.
197. A. Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is an XML-based, open standard format
for exchanging authentication and authorization data between parties. OAuth allows an end
user’s account information to be used by third-party services, without exposing the user’s
password. RADIUS is a remote access protocol. New Technology LAN Manager (NTLM) is
not XML-based.
198. A. Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) was designed specifically for this
purpose. It periodically reauthenticates, thus preventing session hijacking. Neither Password
Authentication Protocol (PAP) nor TACACS+ prevents session hijacking, and RADIUS is a
protocol for remote access, not authentication.
199. C. IPSec virtual private networks (VPNs) can make a remote location appear as though it is
connected to your local network. Since Greg needs to rely on a streaming security camera,
an always-on IPSec VPN is the best solution listed. TLS (SSL) VPNs are primarily used for
specific applications, typically focusing on web applications.
200. B. The Opal storage specification defines how to protect confidentiality for stored user data
and how storage devices from storage device manufacturers can work together. OPAL does
not specify details or processes for licenses, accounts, and libraries, or degaussers.
201. B. UEFI Secure Boot checks every binary that is loaded during boot to make sure that its
hash is valid, by checking against either a locally trusted certificate or a checksum on an
allow list. It does not protect against worms that might attack those binaries, nor does it
directly check the system BIOS version.
202. C. OpenID Connect works with the OAuth 2.0 protocol and supports multiple clients,
including web-based and mobile clients. OpenID Connect also supports REST. Shibboleth is a middleware solution for authentication and identity management that uses SAML
(Security Assertion Markup Language) and works over the Internet. RADIUS is a remote
access protocol. OAuth allows an end user’s account information to be used by third-party
services, without exposing the user’s password.
203. D. Anomaly-based detection systems build a behavioral baseline for networks and then
assess differences from those baselines. They may use heuristic capabilities on top of those,
but the question specifically asks about baselined operations pointing to an anomaly-based
system. Heuristic-based detections look for behaviors that are typically malicious, and
signature-based or hash-based detections look for known malicious tools or files.

204. B. A Trusted Platform Module, or TPM, is used as the foundation for a hardware root of
trust for modern PCs. The TPM may provide a cryptographic key; a PUF, or physically
unclonable function; or a serial number that is unique to the device. The CPU and hard
drive are not used for this function, and HSMs, or hardware security modules, are used for
public key infrastructure (PKI) and cryptographic purposes but not as a hardware root of
trust for PCs.
205. C. Next-generation firewalls typically build in advanced capabilities like URL filtering,
blacklisting, and other application-layer capabilities beyond simple packet filtering or stateful packet inspection.
206. D. Mobile application management (MAM) tools are specifically designed for this purpose,
and they allow applications to be delivered to, removed from, and managed on mobile
devices. MOM is the Microsoft Operations Manager, a systems management tool that
Microsoft has replaced with Operations Manager in current use. MLM often means multilevel marketing, or pyramid schemes—not a security term. MIM is not a security term.
207. A. Cloud applications have many of the same concerns as on-premises applications, but
compromise of the system running the application due to local access is a far less likely
scenario. Cloud application vendors are more likely to operate in secure datacenters with
limited or no access to the servers except for authorized personnel, greatly reducing the
likelihood of this type of security issue.
208. D. The most critical part of a certificate authority (CA) is its root certificate, and ensuring
that the root certificate is never exposed is critical to the ongoing operating of that CA.
Thus, root CAs are often maintained as offline CAs, making it far harder for an attacker
to compromise the system and gain access to the root certificate. In practice, compromised
CAs may lose the trust of organizations around the world and be unable to continue to do
business.
209. C. Split-tunnel VPNs send only traffic destined for the remote network over the VPN, with
all other traffic split away to use the VPN system or a user’s primary network connection.
This reduces overall traffic sent through the VPN but means that traffic cannot be monitored and secured via the VPN. Half-pipe is not a security term, and split horizon is most
often used to describe DNS where an internal and external DNS view may be different.
210. A. Loop protection looks for exactly this type of issue. Loop protection sends packets that
include a PDU, or protocol data unit. These are detected by other network devices and
allow the network devices to shut down ports from which they receive those packets. The
remaining options were made up for this question.
211. C. Over-the-air (OTA) updates are used by cellular carriers as well as phone manufacturers to provide firmware updates and updated phone configuration data. Mobile device
management (MDM) tools can be used to monitor for the current firmware version and
phone settings and will allow Charles to determine if the phones that his staff use are
updated to ensure security. A network access control (NAC) agent might capture some of
this data but only for network-connected phones, which will not cover off-site phones,
those with Wi-Fi turned off, or remote devices. OTA is not specifically a way to update
encryption keys, although firmware or settings might include them. OTA is not sent by the
phones themselves.

Chapter 3: Implementation

265

212. C. Open source firewalls typically do not have the same level of vendor support and maintenance that commercial firewalls do. That means you don’t have a vendor to turn to if
something goes wrong, and you will be reliant on a support community for patches and
updates. Open source firewalls are typically less expensive, their open source nature means
that the code can be validated by anybody who cares to examine it, and it can be acquired
as quickly as it can be downloaded.
213. C. WPA3 personal replaced PSK, or preshared keys, with SAE, or simultaneous authentication of equals. SAE helps to prevent brute-force attacks against keys by making attackers
interact with the network before each authentication attempt. This slows down brute-force
attacks. WPA3 also includes a 192-bit encryption mode. It does not replace 64-bit encryption with 128-bit encryption, add per-channel security, or add distributed denial-of-service
(DDoS) monitoring and prevention.
214. B. Security Enhanced Linux (SELinux) allows mandatory access control for Linux-based
systems, and SEAndroid is an Android implementation of SELinux. That means that Isaac
can use SEAndroid to accomplish his goals. Android does use a registry, but there is no
MAC mode. MACDroid was made up for this question, and single-user mode does not
make Android a MAC-based system.
215. B. The system described is a privileged access management (PAM) system. PAM systems are
used to manage and control privileged accounts securely. MAC is an access control scheme
that enforces access at the OS level. FDE is full-disk encryption, and TLS is Transport Layer
Security.
216. A. Using a mobile device management (MDM) tool that allows control of the devices
would allow Alaina to lock out the cameras, preventing staff members from using the
Android tablets to take pictures. She would still need to ensure that her staff did not bring
their own camera equipped devices into the facility. DLP is data loss prevention, OPAL is an
encryption standard for drives, and MMC has a number of meanings, including multimedia
cards and Microsoft Management Console snap-ins for Windows systems, none of which
would provide the control she needs.
217. C. A universal endpoint management (UEM) tool can manage desktops, laptops, mobile
devices, printers, and other devices. UEM tools often use applications deployed to mobile
devices to configure and manage them, and Olivia’s best option from this list is a UEM tool.
A CASB is a cloud access security broker and is not used to manage mobile devices, and the
other options require massive amounts of manual work and are unlikely to succeed—or
users will simply change settings when it is convenient to them.
218. C. Next-generation (NG) secure web gateways (SWG) add additional features beyond those
found in cloud access security brokers and next generation firewalls. While features can
vary, they may include web filtering, TLS decryption to allow traffic analysis and advanced
threat protection, cloud access security broker (CASB) features, data loss prevention (DLP),
and other advanced capabilities. This type of solution is a relatively new one, and the
market is changing quickly.
219. C. Access policies are built using information and attributes about access requests. If
the policy requirements are met, the actions like allowing or denying access, or requiring

additional authentication steps can be performed. Geolocation and time-based logins focus
on a single information component, and account auditing is used to review permissions for
accounts, not to perform this type of validation or policy-based control.
220. B. Numeric representations of file permissions are commonly used instead of using rwx
notation with chmod. A 7 sets full permissions, and the first number sets the user’s rights,
meaning that here the user will be granted full access to the file.
221. B. Certificate pinning associates a known certificate with a host and then compares that
known certificate with the certificate that is presented. This can help prevent man-in-themiddle attacks but can fail if the certificate is updated and the pinned certificate isn’t. A
CRL, or certificate revocation list, would show whether the certificate has been revoked,
but it would not show if it was changed. Patrick will not have access to the remote server’s
private key unless he happens to be the administrator.
222. C. Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) is the most common format issued by certificate authorities. Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) format is a binary form of the ASCII text PEM
format. PKCS#7 or P7B format is Base64 ASCII, and PKCS#12, or PFX, format is binary
format used to store server certificates, intermediate certificates, and private keys in a single
file.
223. C. Michelle’s only option is to remove the certificate from the list of trusted certificates
on every machine that trusted it. This can be time-consuming and error prone, and it’s one
reason self-signed certificates are avoided in production at many organizations.
224. D. Changing the IP addresses associated with a domain to an arbitrary value could cause
routing or other problems. That means that changing the IP address would not be a chosen
method of validating a domain. The remaining options are legitimate and normal means of
validation for certificates.
225. A. SNMPv3 adds the ability to authenticate users and groups and then encrypt messages,
providing message integrity and confidentiality. It does not have SQL injection prevention
built in, but it also isn’t a protocol where SQL injection will typically be a concern.
226. A. This diagram shows a reverse proxy. A reverse proxy takes connections from the outside
world and sends them to an internal server. A forward proxy takes internal connections and
sends them to external servers. Round-robin and next-generation proxies are not types of
proxies, although round-robin is a form of load balancing.

Chapter 4: Operations
and Incident Response
1.

A. Mila should select a hash because a hash is designed to be unique to each possible input.
That means that multiple files could have the same checksum value, whereas a hashing
algorithm will be unique for each file that it is run against.

2.

A. Allow lists are lists of approved software. Software can only be installed if it is on an
allow list. Deny lists block specific applications, but they cannot account for every possible

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

267

malicious application. Access control lists (ACLs) determine who can access a resource.
A host intrusion detection system (HIDS) does not prevent software from being installed.
3.

C. Correlation dashboards are used to aggregate events and to seek out connections. In some
cases, this is done with advanced analytic algorithms, including artificial intelligence (AI) and
machine learning (ML). A network intrusion detection system (NIDS) would be helpful but
will not (by itself) necessarily correlate events. A public key infrastructure (PKI) handles certificates, not correlation and visibility of security events. Trend dashboards would show how
things are going and which way statistics and information are moving.

4.

D. Using tcpdump with flags like -i to set the interface, tcp to set the protocol, and port
to set the port will capture exactly the traffic Emily needs to capture. Port 443 is the default
HTTPS port. There is no -proto flag for tcpdump.

5.

A. Tabletop exercises are used to talk through a process. Unlike walk-throughs, which focus
on step-by-step review of an incident, Mila will focus more on how her team responds and
on learning from those answers. A tabletop exercise can involve gaming out a situation. A
simulation actually emulates an event or incident, either on a small or a large scale. Drills are
not defined as part of the Security+ exam outline.

6.

A. Backups are considered to be the least volatile type of storage since they change at a
much slower pace and, in fact, may be intentionally retained for long periods of time without
changing. In this list, CPU cache will change the most frequently, then RAM, then local
disk contents.

7.

C. Incident responders know that scan results can show vulnerable systems and services,
providing clues about how attackers may have obtained access to systems. The scans will
not show the programs the attackers used but may show services that they have enabled or
changed. The scans will show the versions of software installed before the attack, but that
information is only useful if the attackers either upgraded or changed the software or the
software was vulnerable, making this a less accurate and useful answer. Finally, the scans may
show where network security devices are, but that information should be available to the
incident response team without trying to figure it out from scans.

8.

C. After eradication of the issue has been completed, recovery can begin. Recovery can
include restoration of services and a return to normal operations.

9.

C. The -p flag adds a persistent route when combined with the ADD command. Persistent
routes will remain in the routing table between boots. By default, they are cleared at each
boot. An attacker may choose to use this to help with an on-path (man-in-the-middle) attack.

10. D. Of the options provided, only theHarvester is an open source intelligence tool. Curl
is a tool used to transfer data, hping is a tool that is frequently used to build custom packets
and to perform packet analyzer functions, and netcat is a utility that allows you to read
and write to network connections, making it a broadly used tool for pen testers and attackers
who need to transfer data using a small, capable utility.
11. C. The MITRE ATT&CK framework focuses on techniques and tactics and does not focus
on a specific order of operations like the Cyber Kill Chain does. It also covers a broader
range of techniques and adversaries than the Diamond Model does and is broadly implemented in many existing tools. The CVSS standard is a vulnerability scoring system and is
not a useful framework for analyzing malware and attacks.

12. D. To properly preserve the system, Ted needs to ensure that it does not change. Turning the
system off will cause anything in memory to be lost, which may be needed for the investigation. Removing the drive while a system is running can cause data to be lost. Instead, live
imaging the machine and its memory may be required. Allowing users to continue to use a
machine will result in changes, which can also damage Ted’s ability to perform a forensic
investigation.
13. D. Containment efforts are used to limit the spread or impact of an incident. Containment
may focus on keeping systems or services online to ensure that organizations can continue to
function until other options for business continuity can be implemented. Segmentation moves
systems or services into different security zones, and isolation removes them from all contact
or puts them in small groups that are removed from the rest of the organization and systems
that are not impacted.
14. D. Windows does not log network traffic at a level of granularity that will show if a file has
been uploaded. Basic traffic statistics can be captured, but without additional sensors and
information gathering capabilities, Jessica will not be able to determine if files are sent from a
Windows system.
15. C. The chain of custody in forensic activities tracks who has a device, data, or other forensic
artifact at any time, when transfers occur, who performed analysis, and where the item,
system, or device goes when the forensic process is done. Evidence logs may be maintained by
law enforcement to track evidence that is gathered. Paper trail and digital footprint are not
technical terms used for digital forensics.
16. A. Of the listed tools, only nmap is a port scanner, and thus it is the tool that will provide the
required information. route is a command-line tool to view and add network traffic routes.
hping is a packet generator and analyzer, and netstat is a command-line tool that shows
network connections, interface statistics, and other useful information about a system’s network usage.
17. B. The -c flag for grep counts the number of occurrences for a given string in a file. The
-n flag shows the matched lines and line numbers. Even if you’re not sure about which flag
is which, the syntax should help on a question like this. When using grep, the pattern comes
before the filename, allowing you to rule out two of the options right away.
18. B. Stakeholder management involves working with stakeholders, or those who have an
interest in the event or impacted systems or services. COOP, or Continuity of Operations
Planning, is a U.S. federal government effort to ensure that federal agencies have continuity
plans. PAM is privileged account management. Stakeholder management involves more than
just communications, although communications is an important part of it.
19. D. The most common reason for a one-hour time offset between two systems in the same
location is a faulty time zone setting creating a time offset between the systems.
20. C. DNS data is frequently logged to help identify compromised systems or systems that have
visited known phishing sites. DNS logs can be used along with IP reputation and known
bad hostname lists to identify issues like these. DNS data is not commonly used to identify

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

269

network scans and cannot capture them. Domain transfers are not attacks, although they
are information gathering and will show in the logs. DNS does not capture information
about logins.
21. D. Even if you’re not deeply familiar with the openssl command-line utility, you should
know that certificates use ciphers that accept a bit length as a flag and that bit lengths like
1024, 2048, and 4096 are common. These key lengths are not commonly communicated
in bytes, and certificates are unlikely to last for multiple decades, although a certificate
authority (CA) root certificate can last for a long time.
22. B. By default, the tail command shows the last 10 lines of a file, and using the -f flag
follows changes in the file. head shows the top of a file, and foot and follow were made
up for this question.
23. B. Although firmware acquisition is a less commonly used technique, firmware is typically
stored in a chip on a system board rather than on disk. Henry is most likely to succeed if he
retrieves the running firmware from memory. A serial connection may work but would typically require rebooting the system.
24. B. Network flows using NetFlow or sFlow would provide the information that Eric wants,
with details of how much traffic was used, when, and where traffic was directed. A firewall
or data loss prevention (DLP) would not show the bandwidth detail, although a firewall may
show the connection information for events. Packetflow was made up for this question and is
not a technology used for this purpose.
25. D. Hashing using MD5 or SHA1 is commonly used to validate that a forensic image matches
the original drive. Many forensic duplicators automatically generate a hash of both drives
when they complete the imaging process to ensure that there is a documentation chain for the
forensic artifacts. A third image may be useful but does not validate this. Directory listings
do not prove that drives match, and photos, though useful to document the drives and serial
numbers, do not validate the contents of the drives.
26. B. Nessus is a popular vulnerability scanning tool. It is not a fuzzer, web application firewall
(WAF), or protocol analyzer.
27. A. Of the options listed, the only requirement for admissibility is that the evidence must be
relevant. Evidence must also be authenticated, meaning that it needs to be genuine.
28. D. The cost to the organization is not typically a part of communications planning. Since
incidents can have a broad range of costs, and since exposing those costs can cause worry
or a loss of customer confidence in the worst case, the costs of the incident are relatively
rarely exposed as part of the incident response process. Communications with customers and
employees is critical, and having different communication plans for different event severities
helps ensure that appropriate communications occur.
29. B. The cat command without an angle bracket to redirect it will simply display the contents
of the files listed. Thus, this command will display file1.txt, and then file2.txt.
If Rick had inserted > between the two files, it would have appended file1.txt to
file2.txt.

30. D. CentOS and Red Hat both store authentication log information in /var/log/secure
instead of /var/log/auth.log used by Debian and Ubuntu systems. Knowing the differences between the major distributions can help speed up your forensic and incident investigations, and consistency is one of the reasons that organizations often select a single Linux
distribution for their infrastructure whenever it is possible to do so.
31. B. Web page titles, as well as headers like meta tags, are examples of metadata about a page
and are frequently used to gather information about web pages and websites. Headers are
used as part of a page’s design and typically describe the bar at the top of the page used for
site navigation. Summary and hidden data are not technical terms used to describe web page
components.
32. C. Cuckoo, or Cuckoo Sandbox, is a malware analysis sandbox that will safely run malware
and then analyze and report on its behavior. strings is a command-line tool that retrieves
strings from binary data. scanless is a tool described as a port scraper, which retrieves port
information without running a port scan by using websites and services to run the scan for
you. Sn1per is a pen test framework.
33. C. Although Autopsy, strings, and grep can all be used to retrieve information from files,
exiftool is the only purpose-built file metadata retrieval tool listed.
34. B. FTK Imager is a free tool that can image both systems and memory, allowing Isaac to
capture the information he wants. Although dd is useful for capturing disks, other tools are
typically used for memory dumps, and though dd can be used on a Windows system, FTK
Imager is a more likely choice. Autopsy is a forensic analysis tool and does not provide its
own imaging tools. WinDump is a Windows version of tcpdump, a protocol analyzer.
35. B. When artifacts are acquired as part of an investigation, they should be logged and documented as part of the evidence related to the investigation. Artifacts could include a piece of
paper with passwords on it, tools or technology related to an exploit or attack, smartcards,
or any other element of an investigation.
36. A. The MX records for a domain list its email servers. Gary can use nslookup to
query Domain Name System (DNS) for the MX servers using the command
nslookup -query =mx example.com to look up example.com’s email server. ping
does not support MX server lookups, and both smtp and email are not commandline tools.
37. B. Wireshark can be used to capture and analyze live Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) traffic
on a network. Analysts should keep the fact that SIP traffic may be encrypted on their network and that they may need to take additional steps to fully view the content of SIP packets.
Log files can provide information about SIP sessions and events and are useful for analysis
after the fact, but they won’t provide the same detail about live SIP traffic. Nessus is a vulnerability scanner, and SIPper was made up for this question.
38. A. Although all of the tools listed can perform a port scan and identify open ports, netcat
is the only one that does not also integrate automated service identification.
39. D. Forensic reports should include appropriate technical detail. Analysis of a system does not
include a picture of the person from whom the system was acquired.

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

271

40. A. This question tests your knowledge of both the common Linux logs and basic format
information for the auth.log file. Greg could use grep to search for
"Failed password" in the auth.log file found in /var/log on many Linux systems.
There is not a common log file named bruteforce.log; tail and head are not useful
for searching through the file, only for showing a set number of lines; and /etc/ is not the
normal location for the auth.log file.
41. C. The browser cache, history, and session information will all contain information from
recently visited sites. Bookmarks may indicate sites that a user has visited at some point, but
a bookmark can be added without visiting a site at all.
42. C. Wireshark is a packet analyzer that can be used to capture and analyze network traffic
for forensic purposes. Unlike disk forensics, network forensics require forethought and intentional capture of data before it is needed since traffic is ephemeral. Organizations that want
to have a view of network traffic without capturing all traffic might use NetFlow or sFlow to
provide some information about network traffic patterns and usage. Nessus is a vulnerability
scanner, nmap is a port scanner, and Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is a
protocol used to transfer and gather information about network devices and status.
43. A. Mapping networks using ping relies on pinging each host, and then uses time-to-live
(TTL) information to determine how many hops exist between known hosts and devices
inside a network. When TTLs decrease, another router or switch typically exists between you
and the device. Packets sent and received can be used to determine if there are issues with the
path or link, and transit time can provide information about relative network distance or the
path used, but traceroute provides far more useful detail in that case.
44. C. Organizations define retention policies for different data types and systems. Many organizations use 30-, 45-, 90-, 180-, or 365-day retention policies, with some information required
to be kept longer due to law or compliance reasons. Susan’s organization may keep logs for
as little as 30 days depending on storage limitations and business needs. Data classification
policies typically impact how data is secured and handled. Backup policies determine how
long backups are retained and rotated and may have an impact on data if the logs are backed
up, but backing up logs are a less common practice due to the space they take up versus the
value of having logs backed up. Legal hold practices are common, but policies are less typically defined for legal holds since requirements are set by law.
45. C. Zero-wiping a drive can be accomplished using dd, and when this command is completed
Selah will have written zeroes to the entire drive /dev/sda.
46. C. Involving impacted areas, or those that have a role in the process, is part of stakeholder
management and ensures that those who need to be involved or aware of the incident
response process are engaged throughout the process. Laws rarely have specific requirements
for internal involvement, instead focusing on customers or those whose data is involved in
an incident. Retention policies determine what data is kept and for how long. COOP is
Continuity of Operations Planning, a federal effort to ensure disaster recovery and business
continuity plans are in place for federal agencies.

47. A. A simulation is the closest you can get to a real-world event without having one. A
tabletop exercise has personnel discussing scenarios, whereas a walk-through goes through
checklists and procedures. A wargame is not a common exercise type.
48. C. The Content-Addressable Memory (CAM) tables on switches contain a list of all the
devices they have talked to and will give Erin the best chance of identifying the devices on
the network. Wireshark and netstat will only have a view of the devices that the system
she is working from communicate with or that broadcast on the network segment she is on.
Domain Name System (DNS) will list only systems that have a DNS entry. In most organizations, relatively few systems will have entries in DNS.
49. C. Sensors are deployed, either as agents, hardware, or virtual machines to gather
information to relay it back to a security information and event management (SIEM) device.
Alert levels, trend analysis features, and sensitivity thresholds are all used to analyze and
report on data, not to gather data.
50. C. A quarantine process or setting will preserve malicious or dangerous files and programs
without allowing them to run. This allows defenders to retrieve them for further analysis as
well as to return them to use if they are determined not to be malicious, or if the malicious
components can be removed from needed files. Purging, deep-freezing, and retention are not
terms used to describe this behavior or setting.
51. C. Chuck should recommend a mobile device management (MDM) system to ensure that
organizational devices can be managed and protected in the future. Data loss prevention
(DLP) will not stop a lost phone from being a potential leak of data, isolating the phones is
not a realistic scenario for devices that will actually be used, nor is containment because the
phone is out of the organization’s control once lost.
52. A. A content filter is specifically designed to allow organizations to select both specific sites
and categories of content that should be blocked. Gabby could review content categories
and configure the filter to prevent students from browsing to the unwanted sites. A data loss
prevention (DLP) solution is designed to prevent data loss, a firewall can block IP addresses
or hostnames but would require additional functionality to filter content, and an intrusion
detection system (IDS) can detect unwanted traffic but cannot stop it.
53. B. Information stored on a disk drive is one of the least volatile items in the order of volatility, but backups are even less volatile. That means Frank should capture backups after he
images the disk drive and that he should capture CPU cache and registers as well as system
RAM first if he needs them.
54. C. The -R flag applies the permission recursively to all files in the named directory. Here,
the permissions are 7, which sets the owner to read, write, and execute, and 55, which sets
group and then world permissions to read only. 755 is a very commonly used permission on
Linux systems.
55. B. The most important action Charles can take while working with his forensic artifacts to
provide nonrepudiation is to digitally sign the artifacts and information that he is creating in
his evidence records. Encrypting the output will ensure its confidentiality but will not provide
nonrepudiation by itself. MD5 checksums for images are commonly gathered but must then
be signed so that they can be validated to ensure they have not been modified.

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

273

56. D. The memdump tool is a command-line memory dump utility that can dump physical
memory. Somewhat confusingly, memdump is also a flag in the very useful Volatility framework, where it can be used to dump memory as well. The remaining options were made up
and are not Linux tools, although you can create a ramdump on Android devices.
57. B. The Windows swapfile is pagefile.sys and is saved in the root of the C:\ drive
by default.
58. A. The best way to capture a virtual machine from a running hypervisor is usually to use the
built-in tools to obtain a snapshot of the system. Imaging tools are not typically capable of
capturing machine state, and dd is not designed to capture VMs. Removing a server’s drives
can be challenging due to RAID and other specific server configuration items, and doing so
might impact all other running VMs and services on the system.
59. C. A well-documented chain of custody can help establish provenance for data, proving
where it came from, who handled it, and how it was obtained. Right to audit, timelines, and
preservation of images do not establish provenance, although preservation is part of the
chain of custody process.
60. B. Digital forensics techniques are commonly used to analyze attack patterns, tools, and
techniques used by advanced persistent threat (APT) actors for counterintelligence purposes.
They may sometimes be used to determine what information was stolen, but this is not the
most common use for digital forensic techniques, nor is their use as a training mechanism.
61. A. Law enforcement is not typically part of organizational incident response teams, but
incident response teams often maintain a relationship with local law enforcement officers.
Security analysts, management, and communication staff as well as technical experts are all
commonly part of a core incident response team.
62. A. Even if you’re not familiar with iptables, you can read through these rules and guess
which rule includes the right details. DROP makes sense for a block, and you should know
that SSH will be a TCP service on port 22.
63. C. logger is a Linux utility that will add information to the Linux syslog. It can accept file
input, write to the system journal entry, send to remote syslog servers, and perform a variety
of other functions. The other commands do not directly interface with the system log.
64. A. Incident response plans don’t stop incidents from occurring, but they do help responders
react appropriately, prepare the organization for incidents, and may be required for legal or
compliance reasons.
65. D. Degaussing a drive uses strong magnetic fields to wipe it and is the least likely to result in
recoverable data. Deleted files can often be recovered because only the file index information
will be removed until that space is needed and is overwritten. Quick formats work in a similar way and will leave remnant data, and files that are overwritten by smaller files will also
leave fragments of data that can be recovered and analyzed.
66. D. Henry’s most likely use for the video is to document the forensic process, part of the chain
of custody and provenance of the forensic data he acquires. The order of volatility helps
determine what devices or drives he would image first. There is no crime being committed, so

establishing guilt is not relevant to this scenario, and the video will not ensure data is
preserved on a drive during a forensic process.
67. B. WinHex is the only disk editor in this list. Autopsy is a forensic analysis suite; dd and
FTK Imager are both imaging tools. WinHex also provides the ability to read RAID and
dynamic disks, perform data recovery, edit physical memory, clone disks, wipe files and
drives, and a variety of other functions.
68. B. Playbooks list the required steps that are needed to address an incident. A runbook
focuses on the steps to perform an action or process as part of an incident response process. Thus, a playbook may reference runbooks. Business continuity (BC) plans and disaster
recovery (DR) plans are not used for incident response, but they are used to ensure that a
business stays online or can recover from a disaster.
69. C. Passwords are typically stored using a hash, and best practices would have them stored
using a password security–specific hash. Alaina can speed up her efforts if she knows what
hashing algorithm and options were used on the passwords. The age and length of the passwords are not necessary, and passwords should not be stored in encrypted form—but the
question also specifically notes they’re hashed passwords.
70. D. An application block list would fit Vincent’s needs the best from the list provided. An
approved list would prevent other tools from being installed, which may impede functionality
while making the maintenance of the list challenging. A data loss prevention (DLP) solution
attempts to prevent data from being sent or exposed but does not prevent installations or
downloads of games. A content filter might help, but workarounds are easy, including sending
games via email or via a thumb drive.
71. B. IPSec is not a tool used to capture network flows. sFlow, NetFlow, and IPFIX are all used
to capture network flow information, which will provide the information Charlene needs.
72. C. A system crash, or system dump, file contains the contents of memory at the time of the
crash. The infamous Windows blue screen of death results in a memory dump to a file, allowing analysis of memory contents. The swapfile (pagefile) is used to store information that
would not fit in memory but is unlikely to contain a currently running malware package,
since files are swapped out when they are not in use. The Windows security log does not contain this type of information, nor does the system log.
73. C. The Windows tracert command will show the route to a remote system as well
as delays along the route. traceroute is the equivalent command in Linux. The arp
command allows you to view and modify the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) cache in
Windows, and netstat has varying functions in different operating systems but generally
shows statistics and information about network usage and status.
74. B. PRTG and Cacti are both network monitoring tools that can provide bandwidth monitoring information. Bandwidth monitors can help identify exfiltration, heavy and abnormal
bandwidth usage, and other information that can be helpful for both incident identification
and incident investigations. If you encounter a question like this on the exam, even if you’re
not familiar with either tool, you can use your knowledge of what Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) is used for to identify which of the categories is most
likely correct.

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

275

75. D. The Security+ exam outline focuses on right to audit clauses, regulatory and jurisdictional
issues, and data breach notification laws as key elements to consider when planning on-site
versus cloud forensic differences. Provenance is important regardless of where the forensic
activity occurs.
76. A. A variety of configuration changes could be pushed to mobile devices to help: setting
passcodes, enabling full-disk encryption (FDE) on mobile devices via organizationally
deployed mobile device management (MDM), or even preventing some sensitive files from
being downloaded or kept on those devices could all help. Firewall rules, data loss prevention
(DLP) rules, and URL filters will not prevent a stolen device from being accessed and the
data being exposed.
77. B. The @ command for dig selects the Domain Name System (DNS) server it should query.
In this case, it will query one of Google’s DNS servers at 8.8.8.8 for the DNS information
for example.com.
78. C. Greg should use the built-in hashing functions to compare either an MD5 or SHA-1 hash
of the source drive to a hash using the same function run on the image. If they match, he has
a valid and intact image. None of the other answers will provide validation that the full drive
was properly imaged.
79. B. The Linux grep command is a search tool that Adam can use to search through files or
directories to find strings. cat is short for concatenate, and the command can be used to
create files, to view their contents, or to combine files. head and tail are used to view the
beginning or end of a file, respectively.
80. C. Segmentation splits networks or systems into smaller units that align with specific needs.
Segmentation can be functional, security based, or for other purposes. Removing potentially
infected systems would be an example of isolation, using firewalls and other tools to stop the
spread of an infection is containment, and adding security systems to prevent data loss is an
example of implementing a security tool or feature.
81. B. Unlike a disaster recovery plan that is written to help an organization recovery from
a person-made or natural disaster, a business continuity plan focuses on how to keep the
business running when it is disrupted. Thus, Charlene’s BC plan would detail how to keep the
organization running when a system outage occurs.
82. C. OpenSSL can be used to generate a certificate using a command like this:
openssl req -x509 -sha256 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout
privateKey.key -out certificate.crt.
None of the other tools listed can be used to generate a certificate.
83. A. The only password cracker listed is John the Ripper. John accepts custom wordlists,
meaning that Cameron can create and use his own wordlist, as shown in option A.
84. A. Autopsy does not have a built-in capability to create disk images. Instead, it relies on
third-party tools for acquisition and then imports disk images and other media. Autopsy
has built-in timeline generation, image filtering and identification, and communication
visualization, among many other capabilities.

85. C. Many cloud service providers do not allow customer-driven audits, either by the customer
or a third party. They also commonly prohibit vulnerability scans of their production environment to avoid service outages. Instead, many provide third-party audit results in the form
of a service organization controls (SOC) report or similar audit artifact.
86. B. The Cyber Kill Chain moves to privilege escalation after exploitation. The entire kill
chain is: 1) Reconnaissance, 2) Intrusion, 3) Exploitation, 4) Privilege Escalation, 5) Lateral
Movement, 6) Obfuscation/Anti-forensics, 7) Denial of Service, and 8) Exfiltration.
87. D. Of the tools that are listed, only Metasploit is an exploitation framework. Cuckoo is a
malware testing sandbox, theHarvester is an open source intelligence gathering tool, and
Nessus is a vulnerability scanner. Tools like Metasploit, BeEF, and Pacu are all examples of
exploitation frameworks.
88. A. A playbook for a security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) environment
is a set of rules that determine what actions will be performed when an event occurs that is
identified by the SOAR using data it collects or receives.
89. B. The Security+ exam outline uses a six-step process for incident response: Preparation,
Identification, Containment, Eradication, Recovery, and Lessons Learned.
90. D. A disaster recovery plan addresses what to do during a person-made or natural disaster.
A flood that completely fills a datacenter would require significant efforts to recover from,
and Gurvinder will need a solid disaster recovery plan—and perhaps a new datacenter
location as soon as possible! A COOP, or Continuity of Operations Pan, is needed for U.S.
government agencies but is not required for businesses. A business continuity plan would
cover how to keep business running, but it does not cover all the requirements in a natural
disaster of this scale, and a flood insurance plan is not a term used in the Security+ exam.
91. C. pathping combines both ping and tracert/traceroute style functionality to help
identify both the path used and where latency is an issue. It is built into Windows and can
be used for exactly the troubleshooting that Frank needs to accomplish. He could use both
ping and tracert/traceroute to perform the task, but he would need to spend more
time using each tool in turn to identify the same information that pathping will put into a
single interface. netcat, while useful for many tasks, isn’t as well suited to this one.
92. A. The dnsenum tool can perform many Domain Name System (DNS)-related functions,
including querying A records, nameservers, and MX records, as well as performing zone
transfers, Google searches for hosts and subdomains, and net range reverse lookups. dig and
host are useful for DNS queries but do not provide this range of capabilities, and dnscat
was made up for this question.
93. C. Jill wants the least possible changes to occur on the system, so she should instruct the user
to not save any files or make any changes. Rebooting the system will not create a memory
dump, and may cause new files to be written or changed if patches were waiting to install
or other changes are set to occur during a reboot. Turning off secure delete or making other
changes will not impact the files that were deleted prior to that setting change.

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

277

94. C. Anti-forensics activities follow lateral movement in the Cyber Kill Chain model. It helps
to remember that after an attacker has completed their attack, they will attempt to hide
traces of their efforts, and then may proceed to denial-of-service or exfiltration activities in
the model.
95. B. The IR process used for the Security+ exam outline is Preparation, Identification, Containment, Eradication, Recovery, and Lessons Learned. Veronica should move into the
lessons learned phase.
96. C. Quick formatting merely deletes file indexes rather than removing and overwriting files,
making it inappropriate for sanitization. Physical destruction will ensure that the data is not
readable, as will degaussing and zero wiping.
97. D. Microsoft Office places information like the name of the creator of the file, editors,
creation and change dates, and other useful information in the file metadata that is stored in
each Office document. Bart can simply open the Office document to review this information
or can use a forensic or file metadata tool to review it. Filenames may contain the creator’s
name, but this would only be if the creator included it. Microsoft Office does not create or
maintain a log, and the application log for Windows does not contain this information.
98. B. Windows Defender Firewall operates on a per-application model and can filter traffic
based on whether the system is on a trusted private network or a public network. Nathaniel
should allow Chrome by name in the firewall, which will allow it to send traffic without
needing to specify ports or protocols.
99. B. The dnsenum Perl script builds in quite a few Domain Name System (DNS) enumeration capabilities, including host, nameserver, and MX record gathering; zone transfer;
Google scraping for domains; subdomain brute forcing from files; as well as Whois automation and reverse lookups for networks up to class C in size. Although you could manually
use dig or nslookup or even netcat to perform many of these functions, dnsenum is
the only automated tool on the list.
100. B. Building a timeline, particularly from multiple systems, relies on accurately set system
clocks or adding a manually configured offset. Disk hashing and acquisition does not need
an accurate system clock, and file metadata can be reviewed even without an accurate clock,
although accurate clock information or knowing the offset can be useful for analysis.
101. B. Data breach notification laws often build in a maximum length of time that can pass
before notification is required. They also often include a threshold for notification, with a
maximum number of exposed individuals before the state or other authorities must be notified. They do not include a maximum number of individuals who can be notified, nor do
they typically have specific requirements about police involvement in forensic investigations
or certification types or levels.
102. C. A data loss prevention (DLP) tool that can scan and review emails for SSN style data is
the most effective tool listed here. Naomi may want to set the tool to block all emails with
potential SSNs, and then review those emails manually to ensure that no further emails
leave while allowing legitimate emails to pass through. An intrusion detection system (IDS)
might look tempting as an answer, but an IDS can only detect, not stop, the traffic, which
would allow the SSNs to exit the organization. Antimalware and firewalls will not stop this
type of event.

103. C. Email headers contain a significant amount of metadata, including where the email was
sent from. The from: field lists a sender but does not indicate where the email was actually
sent from. The to: field lists who the email was sent to, and footers are not used to store this
information for email.
104. A. Jurisdictional boundaries exist between states and localities, as well as countries, making
it challenging for local law enforcement to execute warrants and acquire data from organizations outside of their jurisdiction in many cases. Venue is used to describe where a legal
case is conducted. Legislation may or may not have an impact, and breach laws are unlikely
to impact this but would guide Henry about when notifications of a breach would need to
occur.
105. A. Olivia should use John the Ripper. Although both John the Ripper and rainbow table
tools like Ophcrack can be used to crack passwords, John the Ripper will provide a better
view of how hard the password was to crack, whereas rainbow table tools will simply
determine if the password hash can be cracked. Crack.it and TheHunter were made up for
this question.
106. B. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of
Homeland Security, is in charge of Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP), which is a
requirement for federal agencies. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the National
Security Agency (NSA), and the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) are not in charge of
Continuity of Operations Planning.
107. B. Windows configuration data can be queried using PowerShell, allowing Elaine to write
scripts that will gather security configuration data. Bash is a shell used for Linux systems.
Although Windows systems can now run Bash in the Linux subsystem, it isn’t installed by
default. Secure Shell (SSH) is used for remote shell access, and Python could be used but
would need to be installed specifically for this purpose and isn’t available by default.
108. C. The best option listed is a Wireshark capture of traffic from the phone. In some cases,
this traffic may be encrypted, and Ramon may need to take additional steps to decrypt the
data. Call manager logs and Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) logs do not include the full
audio of a conversation.
109. C. NXLog is a log collection and centralization tool. IPFIX, NetFlow, and sFlow all gather
data about network traffic, including source, destination, port, protocol, and amount of
data sent to be collected.
110. A. Pete has isolated the system by placing it on a separate logical network segment without
access. Some malware can detect if systems lose their network connection, and Pete may
want to perform forensics via the network or monitor attempts to send outbound traffic,
meaning that simply unplugging the system may not meet his needs. Containment would
involve limiting the spread or impact of an attack, segmentation places systems in groups
based on rules or security groupings, and eradication is a part of the incident response (IR)
process where components of an incident or attack are removed.
111. C. Virtual machine forensics typically rely on a snapshot gathered using the underlying
virtualization environment’s snapshot capabilities. This will capture both memory state and
the disk for the system and can be run on an independent system or analyzed using forensic
tools.

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

279

112. B. The tcpreplay tool is specifically designed to allow PCAP capture files to be replayed
to a network, allowing exactly this type of testing. hping can be used to craft packets, but
it’s not designed to replay capture files. tcpdump is used to capture packets, but again, it
not a replay tool, and Cuckoo is a sandboxing tool for testing and identifying malware
packages.
113. C. Windows creates a dump file, which contains all the contents of active memory to allow
analysis of the crash.
114. D. Segmenting a network based on security or risk levels helps ensure that attacks and compromises are constrained to the same type of systems or devices with similar levels of security requirements. Isolation would remove a device or system from contact with the network
or other systems. Fragmentation and tiering are not terms used for the Security+ exam.
115. A. Tagging each drive helps with inventory and ensures that the drive is tracked properly
and that the chain of custody can be maintained. Taking a picture may be useful to identify
the drive, but tagging and inventory control are more important. Drives are not labeled with
an order of volatility because the order of volatility is associated with the type of forensic
target, not with a specific drive. Interviews may be useful but are not always conducted with
every person whose machine is imaged.
116. B. The provenance of a forensic artifact includes the chain of custody, including ownership
and acquisition of the artifact, device, or image. E-discovery is the process of doing discovery in electronic formats for litigation, investigations, and records requests. Jurisdiction
is the region or area where laws or law enforcement has authority. Volatility is how likely a
device or component is to change.
117. B. The Volatility framework is a purpose-built tool for the acquisition of random access
memory (RAM) from a live system. Autopsy is a forensic tool for drive analysis and forensic
investigations, dd is used to image drives, and netcat is a tool used to transfer data or to
make connections to systems across a network.
118. D. Wireshark is a network protocol analyzer and capture tool that can be used for troubleshooting in circumstances like this. In fact, security practitioners are often asked to verify
that traffic is being received properly as part of firewall rule troubleshooting. Randy may
want to capture traffic at both ends of the communication to make sure that the clients are
sending traffic properly and then to match that to the same traffic being received—or going
missing—at the other end. tracert and traceroute are useful for validating the route
that traffic takes but would not show if HTTPS packets were being blocked, and Sn1per is a
pen test framework that allows automated pen testing.
119. B. The oldest and least capable tool listed is syslog, the original system logging tool for
Linux and Unix systems. The other three options have advanced features, which mean that
they are more broadly implemented when flexibility and reliability are needed.
120. A. The only tool on this list that can be used to craft packets is hping. Susan could use the
sample code or exploit by building the necessary packet with hping and then sending it to
a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server in her network while monitoring
with her intrusion prevention system (IPS). She may want to capture all of her traffic with
Wireshark or tcpdump to observe what happens on both ends too!

121. D. SQL injection attempts are sent as HTTP or HTTPS requests to a web server, meaning
that Valerie will be able to see the attacks in the web server log. Domain Name System
(DNS) logs, if available, will not show these. Auth logs show logins, not web or SQL Server
queries or requests. Unlike Windows, there is no security log file for Linux, although there is
a secure log for some systems.
122. A. If the private key and the passphrase for a certificate are exposed, the certificate should
be revoked. A new certificate will need to be issued, but the certificate cannot be trusted
and revocation is the first step to handle the issue properly. Changing the password will not
help, and changing the private or public key will require a new certificate.
123. C. A legal hold notice will inform the company that they must preserve and protect
information related to the case. None of the other items are terms used in this process.
124. B. netstat can show all active connections, and using the -a flag will do so. netstat
does not provide a -c command flag. The route command is used to modify and display
the system’s routing table. hping is a packet analyzer and packet building tool often used
to craft specific packets as part of penetration tests and attacks.
125. B. A quarantine setting will place a malicious or suspect file in a safe location and will
keep it there until a set timeframe has passed or until an administrator takes action to deal
with it. This can allow you to further analyze the file or to restore it if it was an incorrect
identification or if the file is needed for another purpose. Containment is used to limit the
extent of an incident or attack, isolation keeps a system or device from connecting to or
accessing others, and deleting a file wouldn’t keep it around.
126. D. Although Linux systems can use a file for swap space, a common solution is to use a separate partition for swap space.
127. A. Tracking multiple drives requires careful inventory, evidence handling logging, and
tagging of the drives to ensure that they are the right drive and that they are tracked
throughout the forensic investigation. Marco should carefully tag each of the drives and
ensure that those tags are used throughout the investigation.
128. D. The -v flag for netcat sets it to verbose mode. That means that Isaac has attempted to
connect to every port from 1 to 1024 on 10.11.10.1 using netcat. Since there are no other
flags or options, it will simply try to connect, and then provide a verbose result about what
happened, resulting in a simple but effective port scan.
129. B. Tony’s best option is likely containment. He may want to remove that location from
the corporate network or to prevent most traffic from being permitted until he can take
a deeper look into what is going on. If he isolated the entire site, he might disrupt critical
business operations, and segmentation would have been more appropriate before the event
occurred.
130. C. Right-to-audit clauses are commonly accepted as part of service and leasing contracts
regardless of location for datacenter co-location and facility rental contracts. Cloud service
providers, however, are less likely to sign a right-to-audit contract. Instead, they may provide third-party audit data to customers or even to potential customers.

Chapter 4: Operations and Incident Response

281

131. D. The best option for Alaina would be to use a URL filter to block users from visiting
the link in the phishing email. A WAF, or web application firewall, is designed to prevent
attacks against a web application. Patching can help stop exploits of vulnerable services
or systems, but this is a phishing attack, and an allow list lists allowed items, not blocked
items, and limiting which websites an entire company can visit is almost impossible in most
circumstances.
132. A. Playbooks list the actions that an organization will take as part of a response process.
A runbook lists the steps required to perform an action like notification, removing malware,
or similar tasks. Playbooks tend to be used to document processes, whereas runbooks tend
to be used for specific actions. A disaster recovery (DR) plan is used to recover from disasters, and a business continuity (BC) plan is used to ensure that the organization continues to
function.
133. B. Since MAC addresses are only visible within a broadcast domain (local network), the
MAC addresses of external hosts cannot be retrieved using the arp command. The MAC
addresses for local systems, the IP addresses of the local host, and whether they are dynamic
or static can all be determined using the arp command.
134. C. The journalctl tool is used to query the systemd journal. On systemd-enabled Linux
distributions, the journal contains kernel and boot messages as well as syslog messages and
messages from services.
135. C. The recovery phase often involves adding firewall rules and patching systems in addition
to rebuilding systems. Although preparation may involve configuring firewall rules or regular patching, it does not do so in response to an incident. Containment might involve
both but is less likely to, since the focus will be on broader fixes, and eradication works to
remove the threat.
136. A. The curl command-line tool supports downloads and uploads from a wide variety
of services, and it would be the ideal solution for this scenario. hping is used for crafting
packets, nmap is a port scanner, and theHarvester is an open source intelligence gathering
tool, none of which meet Gary’s needs.
137. C. Gary should look at the trend information for malware detections to check to see if
there are more infections being detected than during recent weeks. This can be a useful
indicator of a change, either due to a new malware technique or package, a successful
attack that has resulted in staff members clicking on malicious links or opening malicious
emails, or other paths into the organization. Gary could then check with users whose systems reported the malware to see what had occurred. Alerts might show the infections but
would not show the data over time as easily as trends. Sensors will show individual places
data is gathered, and bandwidth dashboards can show useful information about which systems are using more or less bandwidth, but the trends dashboard remains the right place for
him to look in this situation.
138. B. Although it can be easy to focus on the digital part of digital forensics, interviews with
end users and others involved in an incident can be a key element of a forensic investigation. Investigators still need to gather information and record what they found, but an
interview can provide firsthand knowledge and additional details that may not be able to be

recovered via technical means like email or disk forensics. A chain of custody does not provide information about reports from end users.
139. B. The only option on this list that supports Aaron’s requirements is NXLog. Syslog can
receive Windows events if they are converted to syslog, but it isn’t a native feature. IPFIX is
a network flow standard, and journalctl is used to access the systemd journal.
140. A. Typical exercise types for most organizations include simulations that emulate an actual
incident response process, walk-throughs that guide staff through an event, and tabletop
exercises that are gamed out without taking actual action. Drills are classified as more
focused on specific actions or functions, and they are less common because they can result
in inadvertent action or mistakes and do not cover the breadth of an incident.
141. A. Of the options listed, netstat is the only tool that will not perform a port scan.
142. C. The top of the diamond should be labeled Adversary, one of the four vertices on the Diamond model.
143. C. Electronic discovery, or e-discovery, is the legal proceeding involved in litigation, FoIA
requests, and similar efforts that produce information in electronic form. Email forensics
could be required to recover data in an investigation, but there is no indication in the
question of any need for forensic investigation. Inquisitions and provenance are not concepts for the Security+ exam.

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk,
and Compliance
1.

A. Caroline should select ISO 27002. ISO 27002 is an international standard for implementing and maintaining information security systems. ISO 27017 is an international standard for
cloud security; NIST 800-12 is a general security standard and it is a U.S. standard, not an
international one; and NIST 800-14 is a standard for policy development, and it is also a U.S.
standard, not an international one.

2.

B. If a system is infected with malware, the malware will operate with the privileges of the
current user. If you use nonadministrative accounts, with least privileges, then the malware
won’t be able to access administrative functionality without a privilege escalation capability.

3.

D. Least privilege is the most fundamental concept in establishing accounts. Each user should
have just enough privileges to do their job. This concept also applies to service accounts.
Although each of the other options is something you would consider, they are not as critical
as the principle of least privilege.

4.

C. Change management is the process of documenting all changes made to a company’s
network and computers. Avoiding making changes at the same time makes tracking any
problems that can occur much simpler. Due diligence is the process of investigation and

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

283

verification of the accuracy of a particular act. Acceptable use policies state what actions and
practices are allowed in an organization while using technology. Due care is the effort made
by a reasonable party to avoid harm to another. It is the level of judgment, care, determination, and activity a person would reasonably expect to do under certain conditions.
5.

A. An acceptable use policy (AUP) is a document stating what a user may or may not
have access to on a company’s network or the Internet. A clean desk policy ensures that all
sensitive/confidential documents are removed from an end-user workstation and locked
up when the documents are not in use. Mandatory vacation policy is used by companies
to detect fraud by having a second person, familiar with the duties, help discover any illicit
activities. Job rotation is a policy that describes the practice of moving employees between
different tasks. Job rotation can help detect fraud because employees cannot perform the
same actions for long periods of time.

6.

C. The PCI-DSS, or Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, is a security standard
that is mandated by credit card vendors. The Payment Card Industry Security Standards
Council is responsible for updates and changes to the standard. GDPR, or the General Data
Protection Regulation, is a standard for data privacy and security in the European Union
(EU). COPPA is the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, a U.S. federal law. CIS is the
Center for Internet Security and is not a law or a regulation.

7.

A. Companies will use mandatory vacation policies to detect fraud by having a second
person, familiar with the duties, help discover any illicit activities. Clean desk policy ensures
that all sensitive/confidential documents are removed from an end-user workstation and
locked up when the documents are not in use. A nondisclosure agreement (NDA) protects
sensitive and intellectual data from getting into the wrong hands. Continuing education is
the process of training adult learners in a broad list of postsecondary learning activities and
programs. Companies will use continuing education in training their employees on the new
threats and also reiterating current policies and their importance.

8.

B. Locking cabinets and drawers is the best solution because they allow individuals to lock
their drawers and ensure that access to a single key does not allow broad access to documents like a department door lock or proximity cards for the space. Onboarding is the
process of adding an employee to a company’s identity and access management system and
would not help with securing documents, but it might teach the process of doing so.

9.

D. Quantitative risk assessment is the process of assigning numerical values to the probability an event will occur and what the impact of the event will have. Change management is
the process of managing configuration changes made to a network. Vulnerability assessment
attempts to identify, quantify, and rank the weaknesses in a system. Qualitative risk
assessment is the process of ranking which risk poses the most danger using ratings like low,
medium, and high.

10. D. A memorandum of understanding (MOU) is a type of agreement that is usually not
legally binding. This agreement is intended to be mutually beneficial without involving courts
or money. An SLA (service level agreement) defines the level of service the customer expects
from the service provider. The level of service definitions should be specific and measurable
in each area. A BPA (business partnership agreement) is a legal agreement between partners.

It establishes the terms, conditions, and expectations of the relationship between the partners.
An ISA (interconnection security agreement) is an agreement that specifies the technical and
security requirements of the interconnection between organizations.
11. A. Escalation is necessary in cases where the current breach goes beyond the scope of the
organization or investigators or is required by law. In this case, Sally believes a crime has
been committed and has escalated the case to law enforcement. Other escalations might be to
federal or state law enforcement, or to other more capable internal or external investigators.
Tokenizing data uses a deidentified replacement data item, public notification notifies the
population or customers at large, and outsourcing investigations may be done if specialized
skills are needed.
12. A. The single loss expectancy (SLE) is the product of the value ($16,000) and the exposure
factor (.35), or $5,600.
13. C. Antivirus is an example of a corrective control. A corrective control is designed to correct
a situation. An IDS (intrusion detection system) is a detective control because it detects security breaches. An audit log is a detective control because it detects security breaches. A router
is a preventive control because it prevents security breaches with access control lists (ACLs).
14. A. A deterrent control is used to warn a potential attacker not to attack. Lighting added to
the perimeter and warning signs such as a “no trespassing” sign are deterrent controls. The
other options are examples of detective controls. A detective control is designed to uncover
a violation, although some detective controls may serve as a deterrent—for example, when a
camera is visible, they are not primarily deterrent controls.
15. D. Testing and training are preventive administrative controls. Administrative controls dictate how security policies should be executed to accomplish the company’s security goals. A
detective technical control uncovers a violation through technology. A preventive technical
control attempts to stop a violation through technology. Detective administrative controls
uncover a violation through policies, procedures, and guidelines.
16. A. Risk acceptance is a strategy of recognizing, identifying, and accepting a risk that is sufficiently unlikely or that has such limited impact that a corrective control is not warranted.
Risk transfer is the act of moving the risk to hosted providers who assume the responsibility
for recovery and restoration or by acquiring insurance to cover the costs emerging from a
risk. Risk avoidance is the removal of the vulnerability that can increase a particular risk
so that it is avoided altogether. Risk mitigation is when a company implements controls to
reduce vulnerabilities or weaknesses in a system. It can also reduce the impact of a threat.
17. D. In most cases, operating a facility in a state is sufficient reason to need to comply with
state laws. Jim should check with a lawyer, but he should plan on needing to comply with
Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio law, as well as federal laws.
18. A. Onboarding is the process of adding an employee to a company’s identity and access
management system. Offboarding is the process of removing an employee from the company’s identity and access management system. Adverse action is an official personnel action
that is taken for disciplinary reasons. Job rotation gives individuals the ability to see various
parts of the organization and how it operates. It also eliminates the need for a company to

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

285

rely on one individual for security expertise should the employee become disgruntled and
decide to harm the company. Recovering from a disgruntled employee’s attack is easier when
multiple employees understand the company’s security posture.
19. A. A clean desk policy ensures that sensitive information and documents are not left on
desks after hours and requires employees to place those files into a less exposed or secure
location. Background checks, continuing education, and job rotation do not protect confidential information left on desks from being exposed.
20. A. As users register for an account, they enter letters and numbers they are given on the
web page before they can register. This is an example of a deterrent control since it prevents
bots from registering and proves this is a real person. Detective controls detect intrusion as
it happens and uncovers a violation. A compensating control is used to satisfy a requirement
for a security measure that is too difficult or impractical to implement at the current time.
Degaussing is a method of removing data from a magnetic storage media by changing the
magnetic field.
21. D. A parking policy generally outlines parking provisions for employees and visitors. This
includes the criteria and procedures for allocating parking spaces for employees and is not
a part of organizational security policy. Instead, it is an operational or business policy. An
acceptable use policy describes the limits and guidelines for users to make use of an organization’s physical and intellectual resources. This includes allowing or limiting the use of
personal email during work hours. Social media policy defines how employees should use
social media networks and applications such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and others. It
can adversely affect a company’s reputation. Password policies define the complexity of
creating passwords. It should also define weak passwords and how users should protect
password safety.
22. C. Proprietary data is a form of confidential information, and if the information is revealed,
it can have severe effects on the company’s competitive edge. High is a generic label assigned
to data internally that represents the amount of risk being exposed outside the company. The
top-secret label is often used in governmental systems where data and access may be granted
or denied based on assigned categories. Low is a generic label assigned to data internally that
represents the amount of risk being exposed outside the company.
23. C. Antivirus software is used to protect computer systems from malware and is not a
physical security control. Physical controls are security measures put in place to reduce
the risk of harm coming to a physical property. This includes protection of personnel,
hardware, software, networks, and data from physical actions and events that could cause
damage or loss.
24. A. Quantitative risk assessment is the process of assigning numerical values to the probability an event will occur and what impact the event will have. Qualitative risk assessment
is the process of ranking which risk poses the most danger such as low, medium, and high.
A business impact analysis (BIA) is used to evaluate the possible effect a business can suffer
should an interruption to critical system operations occur. This interruption could be as a
result of an accident, emergency, or disaster. Threat assessment is the process of identifying
and categorizing different threats such as environmental and person-made. It also attempts to
identify the potential impact from the threats.

25. D. A nondisclosure agreement (NDA) protects sensitive and intellectual data from getting
into the wrong hands. An NDA is a legal contract between the company and third-party
vendor to not disclose information per the agreement. Encrypted data that is sent can still
be decrypted by the third-party vendor if they have the appropriate certificate or the key but
does not restrict access to the data. Violating an NDA would constitute unauthorized data
sharing, and a violation of privileged user role-based awareness training has nothing to do
with sharing proprietary information.
26. A. Detective controls like CCTV detect intrusion as it happens and can help uncover
violations. Policies are administrative controls. Firewalls and intrusion prevention system
(IPS) devices are technical controls. Technical controls are applied through technology and
may be also be deterrent, preventive, detective, or compensating.
27. C. Sharing of profits and losses and the addition or removal of a partner, as well as the
responsibilities of each partner, are typically included in a BPA (business partner agreement).
Expectations between parties such as a company and an Internet service provider are typically found in a service level agreement (SLA). Expectations include the level of performance
given during the contractual service. An SLA will provide a clear means of determining
whether a specific function or service has been provided according to the agreed-on level of
performance. Security requirements associated with interconnecting IT systems are typically
found in an interconnection security agreement, or ICA.
28. D. A backup generator is a compensating control—an alternate control that replaces the
original control when it cannot be used due to limitations of the environment. A firewall is
considered a preventive control, a security guard is considered a physical control, and an IDS
(intrusion detection system) is considered a detective control.
29. A. Preventive controls stop an action from happening—in this scenario, preventing an unauthorized user from gaining access to the network when the user steps away. A corrective control is designed to correct a situation, a deterrent control is used to deter a security breach,
and a detective control is designed to uncover a violation.
30. C. Job rotation allows individuals to see various parts of the organization and how it operates. It also eliminates the need for a company to rely on one individual for security expertise
should the employee become disgruntled and decide to harm the company.
Recovering from a disgruntled employee’s attack is easier when multiple employees understand the company’s security posture. Separation of duties is the concept of having more than
one person required to complete a task, allowing problems to be noted by others involved.
A mandatory vacation policy is used by companies to detect fraud by having a second
person, familiar with the duties, help discover any illicit activities while the person who normally performs them is out of the office. Onboarding is the process of adding an employee to
a company’s identity and access management system or other infrastructure.
31. B. Data minimization is the process of ensuring that only data that is required for business
functions is collected and maintained. Tony should ensure that his organization is minimizing
the data collected. Data masking redacts data but does not decrease how much is collected.
Tokenization replaces sensitive values with a unique identifier that can be looked up in a
lookup table. Anonymization removes the ability to identify individuals from data but is
quite difficult.

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

287

32. A. Risk avoidance is a strategy to deflect threats in order to avoid the costly and disruptive
consequences of a damaging event. It also attempts to minimize vulnerabilities that can pose
a threat. A risk register is a document that tracks an organization’s risks and information
about the risks like who owns it, if it is being remediated, and similar details. Risk acceptance
is a strategy of recognizing, identifying, and accepting a risk that is sufficiently unlikely or
that has such limited impact that a corrective control is not warranted. Risk mitigation is
when a company implements controls to reduce vulnerabilities or weaknesses in a system. It
can also reduce the impact of a threat.
33. D. Systems should be restored within four hours with a minimum loss of one day’s worth of
data. The RTO (recovery time objective) is the amount of time within which a process or service must be restored after a disaster to meet business continuity. It defines how much time
it takes to recover after notification of process disruption. The recovery point objective, or
RPO, specifies the amount of time that can pass before the amount of data lost may exceed
the organization’s maximum tolerance for data loss.
34. A. A data retention policy defines how long an organization will keep data. Removing
sensitive documents not in use is a clean desk policy. A formal process for managing configuration changes is change management, and a memorandum of understanding consists of legal
documents that describe mutual agreement between two parties.
35. B. ALE (annual loss expectancy) is the product of the ARO (annual rate of occurrence) and
the SLE (single loss expectancy) and is mathematically expressed as ALE = ARO × SLE.
Single loss expectancy is the cost of any single loss, and it is mathematically expressed as
SLE = AV (asset value) × EF (exposure factor).
36. B. The Center for Internet Security (CIS) benchmarks provide recommendations for how to
secure an operating system, application, or other covered technology. Michelle will find
Windows 10–specific security configuration guidelines and techniques.
37. A. Preventive controls like data backups are proactive and are used to avoid a security
breach or an interruption of critical services before they can happen. Security cameras, smoke
detectors, and door alarms are examples of detective control. Detective controls detect intrusion as it happens and uncovers a violation.
38. C. Risk transfer is the act of moving the risk to hosted providers who assume the responsibility for recovery and restoration or by acquiring insurance to cover the costs emerging
from a risk. Risk acceptance is a strategy of recognizing, identifying, and accepting a risk
that is sufficiently unlikely or that has such limited impact that a corrective control is not
warranted. Risk mitigation is when a company implements controls to reduce vulnerabilities
or weaknesses in a system. It can also reduce the impact of a threat. Risk avoidance is the
removal of the vulnerability that can increase a particular risk so that it is avoided altogether.
39. D. A preventive control is used to avoid a security breach or an interruption of critical services before they can happen. Administrative controls are defined through policies, procedures, and guidelines. A compensating control is used to satisfy a requirement for a security
measure that is too difficult or impractical to implement at the current time. A deterrent control is used to deter a security breach.

40. C. Mean time between failures (MTBF) is a measurement to show how reliable a hardware
component is. MTTR (mean time to repair) is the average time it takes for a failed device or
component to be repaired or replaced. An RPO (recovery point objective) is the period of
time a company can tolerate lost data being unrecoverable between backups. ALE (annual
loss expectancy) is the product of the annual rate of occurrence (ARO) and the single loss
expectancy (SLE).
41. C. A single point of failure (SPOF) is a single weakness that can bring an entire system down
and prevent it from working. Cloud computing allows the delivery of hosted service over the
Internet. Load balancing spreads traffic or other load between multiple systems or servers.
Virtualization uses a system to host virtual machines that share the underlying resources such
as RAM, hard drive, and CPU.
42. A. Quantitative risk analysis requires complex calculations and is more time-consuming
because it requires detailed financial data and calculations. Quantitative risk assessment
is often subjective and requires expertise on systems and infrastructure, and both types of
assessment can provide clear answers on risk-based questions.
43. D. A custodian configures data protection based on security policies. The local community
bank is the data owner, not Leigh Ann. Leigh Ann is a network administrator, not a user, and
power user is not a standard security role in the industry.
44. B. Risk acceptance is a strategy of recognizing, identifying, and accepting a risk that is sufficiently unlikely or has such limited impact that a corrective control is not warranted. Risk
mitigation is when a company implements controls to reduce vulnerabilities or weaknesses
in a system. It can also reduce the impact of a threat. Risk avoidance is the removal of the
vulnerability that can increase a particular risk so that it is avoided altogether. Risk transfer
is the act of moving the risk to other organizations like insurance providers or hosting companies who assume the responsibility for recovery and restoration or by acquiring insurance
to cover the costs emerging from a risk.
45. A. Data owners assign labels such as top secret to data. Custodians assign security controls
to data. A privacy officer ensures that companies comply with privacy laws and regulations.
System administrators are responsible for the overall functioning of IT systems.
46. C. Employees can leak a company’s confidential information. Exposing a company’s
information could put the company’s security position at risk because attackers can use this
information as part of attacks against the company. Gaining access to a computer’s MAC
address is not relevant to social media network risk. Gaining access to a computer’s IP
address is not relevant to social media network risk. Employees can easily express their concerns about a company in general. This is not relevant to social media network risk as long as
the employee doesn’t reveal any confidential information.
47. C. Separation of duties is the concept of having more than one person required to complete a
task. A background check is a process that is performed when a potential employee is considered for hire. Job rotation allows individuals to see various parts of the organization and how
it operates. It also eliminates the need for a company to rely on one individual for security
expertise should the employee become disgruntled and decide to harm the company. Recovering from a disgruntled employee’s attack is easier when multiple employees understand

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

289

the company’s security posture. Collusion is an agreement between two or more parties to
defraud a person of their rights or to obtain something that is prohibited by law.
48. B. ALE (annual loss expectancy) = SLE (single loss expectancy) × ARO (annualized rate of
occurrence). SLE equals $750,000 (2,500 records × $300), and ARO equals 5%, so $750,000
times 5% equals $37,500.
49. C. RPO (recovery point objective) specifies the allowable data loss. It is the amount of time
that can pass during an interruption before the quantity of data lost during that period surpasses business continuity planning’s maximum acceptable threshold. MTBF (mean time
between failures) is the rating on a device or component that predicts the expected time between failures. MTTR (mean time to repair) is the average time it takes for a failed device or
component to be repaired or replaced. ARO (annual rate of occurrence) is the ratio of an estimated possibility that a threat will take place within a one-year time frame.
50. D. A data retention policy states how data should be stored based on various types, such as
storage location, amount of time the data should be retained, and the type of storage medium
that should be used. A clean desk policy ensures that all sensitive/confidential documents are
removed from an end-user workstation and locked up when the documents are not in use. An
AUP, or acceptable use policy, describes the limits and guidelines for users to make use of an
organization’s physical and intellectual resources. This includes allowing or limiting the use
of personal email during work hours. A security policy defines how to secure physical and
information technology assets. This document should be continuously updated as technology
and employee requirements change.
51. C. Onboarding is the process of adding an employee to company’s identity and access
management system. Offboarding is the process of removing an employee from the company’s identity and access management system. A system owner is an individual who is in
charge of managing one or more systems and can include patching and updating operating
systems. An executive user was made up for this question.
52. B. Separation of duty can be classified as an operational control that attempts to minimize
fraud by ensuring that an individual cannot exploit a process and conceal the errors or issues
that they are creating. It is not a physical control or a technical control, and nothing in the
question indicates that this is compensating for gaps left by another control.
53. D. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) does not include a right to anonymity,
although organizations must be able to provide security safeguards that may include anonymization where appropriate.
54. D. The NIST RMF’s process is.
1.

Prepare

2.

Categorize system

3.

Select controls

4.

Implement controls

5.

Assess controls

6.

Authorize system

7.

Monitor controls

55. B. Security program administrators often use different types of training to ensure that
trainees who react and respond differently to training are given training that helps them.
There may be other valid reasons, but this is the most common reason for training diversity.
56. A. Risks that the organization itself creates are internal risks. External risks are those created
by factors outside the organization’s control. Qualitative and quantitative are both types of
risk assessment, rather than categorizations of risk.
57. B. Risk registers are documents used by organizations to track and manage risks and include
information including the owner or responsible party, details about the risk, and other useful
information. Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAEs) are audit reports,
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) is a security standard used for
credit card operations, and risk table is not a common industry term.
58. C. The mean time to repair (MTTR) for a system or devices is the average time that it will
take to repair it if it fails. The MTTR is used as part of business continuity planning to determine if a system needs additional redundancy or other options put in place if a failure and
repair would exceed the maximum tolerable outage. It is calculated by dividing the total
maintenance time by the total number of repairs. MTBF is the mean time between failures,
MTTF the mean time to fail, and MITM is an on-path attack, a term that has been increasingly replaced with on-path.
59. D. Common results of breaches like this include identity theft using the personal information
of the customers, financial loss to the company due to breach costs and lawsuits, and reputational loss. Since the incident response process is over, Olivia’s company should have remediated the underlying issues that led to the breach, hopefully preventing further downtime and
thus availability loss.
60. D. There is no civilian classification level for government data. Data may be unclassified,
or sensitive but unclassified. Top Secret, Secret, and Confidential are all commonly used
classifications.
61. B. The source code for a product is not typically used as a location for privacy terms and
conditions. Instead, they are in the contract, user license or related legal terms, or in a formal
privacy notice.
62. B. Pseudonymization can allow reidentification of the data subject if additional data is available. Properly done anonymization cannot be reversed. Anonymization techniques will group
information so that individuals cannot be identified from data and use other techniques to
prevent additional information, leading to de-anonymization of individuals.
63. A. A data governance policy clearly states who owns the information collected and used by
an organization. Information security policies provide the high-level authority and guidance
for security programs and efforts. Acceptable use policies (AUPs) define what information
resources can be used for and how. Data retention policies establish what information an
organization will collect and how long it will be kept before destruction.
64. C. Helen has created a functional recovery plan focused on a specific technical and business
function. A disaster recovery plan (DRP) has a broader perspective and might include multiple functional recovery plans. RPOs, or recovery point objectives, and MTBF, or mean time
between failures, are not types of plans typically built by organizations.

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

291

65. B. Health information may be covered by state, local, or federal law, and Greg’s organization should ensure that they understand any applicable laws before storing, processing, or
handling health information.
66. C. Control risks specifically apply to financial information, where they may impact the
integrity or availability of the financial information.
67. D. An individual is most likely to face identity theft issues if their personally identifiable
information (PII) is stolen or breached.
68. C. It is common practice to prohibit interactive logins to a GUI or shell for service accounts.
Use of a service account for interactive logins or attempting to log in as one should be immediately flagged and alerted on as an indicator of compromise (IoC).
69. C. Asset management policies typically include all stages of an asset’s life cycle, and asset tags
like those described are used to track assets in many organizations. Change management,
incident response, and acceptable use policies do not require asset tagging.
70. D. The diagram shows a fully redundant internal network with pairs of firewalls, routers,
and core switches, but with a single connection to the Internet. This means that Megan
should consider how her organization would connect to the outside world if that link was
severed or disrupted. There is no indication whether this is a wired or wireless link, and the
image does not show a redundant link.
71. D. Emma should categorize this as a supply chain risk. When organizations cannot get the
systems, equipment, and supplies they need to operate, it can have significant impact on their
ability to conduct business. That could create financial risk, but financial risk is not the direct
risk here. There is no indication that the vendor will not support the systems, nor is there any
information about whether there is an integration issue in the description.
72. A. An intrusion detection system (IDS) can detect attacks, and is a detective control. Since it
is a technical system rather than a physical control or an administrative policy or procedure,
Henry can correctly categorize it as a technical, detective control.
73. C. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) does not provide security configuration guides or
benchmarks for operating systems or devices. The Center for Internet Security (CIS), Microsoft (and other vendors), and the National Security Agency (NSA) all provide configuration
benchmarks.
74. C. Legacy systems that no longer receive support are a significant concern because they
cannot be patched if security vulnerabilities are discovered. Windows 2008 reached its end
of life in January 2020. It ran on both 32-bit and 64-bit platforms, and you can still install
modern web servers on it.
75. B. Patching is a form of avoidance because it works to remove a risk from the environment.
Acceptance of flaws that need patching would involve leaving the software unpatched; mitigation strategies might include firewalls, intrusion prevention systems (IPSs), or web application firewall (WAF) devices; and transference options include third-party hosting or services.
76. B. Risk heat maps or a risk matrix can allow an organization to quickly look at risks and
compare them based on their probability and impact or other rating elements. Qualitative
and quantitative risk assessments are types of assessment, not means of presenting risk
information in an easy-to-understand format, and risk plots are not a common term used in
the field.

77. A. The fines that can result from violation or infringement of regulations like the General
Data Protection Regulation can have a significant impact on an organization, or could even
potentially put it out of business. Due to this, organizations will track compliance with regulations as part of their risk posture.
78. D. Disaster recovery requires forethought and preparation, response to issues to minimize
impact during a disaster, and response activities after a disaster. Thus, a complete disaster
recovery plan should include actions that may or will occur before, during, and after a
disaster, and not just the recovery process after the fact.
79. B. Although data breaches could result in termination of a card processing agreement, the
fact that her organization is noncompliant is most likely to result in a fine. PCI-DSS, or
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, is a vendor standard, not a law, and criminal
charges would not typically be filed in a situation like this.
80. C. The Cloud Security Alliance’s Cloud Control Matrix maps existing standards to common
control descriptions allowing control requirements to be compared and validated across
many standards and regulations. The CSA reference architecture is a set of standard designs,
and ISO 27001 and ISO 27002 are standards for managing information security.
81. B. Gamification makes training into a game to get more involvement and interest. Scoring
points and receiving rewards, either in-game or virtually, can have a significant positive
impact on the response to training. Capture-the-flag events focus on techniques like finding
hidden information or otherwise obtaining “flags” as part of a contest. Phishing campaigns
send fake phishing emails to staff to identify individuals who may fall for them. Role-based
training focuses on training specifically for the role or job that an individual has or will have.
82. D. The General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, requires a data protection officer
(DPO). They oversee the organization’s data protection strategy and implementation, and
make sure that the organization complies with the GDPR.
83. D. Although recovering from a breach can be costly, the loss of data like intellectual property
in circumstances like these is the most critical issue. The institution is likely to suffer reputational harm and may not be trusted to conduct research like this in the future, leading to an
even greater cost to the university’s ability to do new research with the government.
84. B. Mission-essential functions are defined as those functions that an organization must run
throughout a disaster or that must be resumed as quickly as possible after one if they cannot
be sustained. They are the core functions of the organization and are key to its success and
ongoing existence. A single point of failure (SPOF) is a point where a device, system, or
resource can fail and cause an entire function or organization to no longer work. Recovery
time objectives (RTOs) are the time allotted to return to normal functionality. Core recovery
functions were made up for this question.
85. B. A SLA (service level agreement) defines the level of service the customer expects from the
service provider. The level of service definitions should be specific and measurable in each
area. An MOU (memorandum of understanding) is a legal document that describes a mutual
agreement between parties. An ISA (interconnection security agreement) is an agreement that
specifies the technical and security requirements of the interconnection between organizations. A BPA (business partnership agreement) is a legal agreement between partners. It establishes the terms, conditions, and expectations of the relationship between the partners.

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

293

86. A. Customer data can include any information that a customer uploads, shares, or otherwise
places in or creates via a service. Customers may have contractual security guarantees in the
terms of service, and notification or other clauses may also impact what Rick needs to do if
the data is breached. PII is personally identifiable information like name, address, or other
details that can identify a person. Financial information may include bills, account balances,
and similar details. Health information covers a broad range of data about an individual’s
medical and health status or history.
87. C. Theft of proprietary information like a formula or code is an example of intellectual
property (IP) theft. IP theft can be harder to quantify the cost of a loss in many cases but can
have significant impact to an organization that relies on the IP for their business. External
risk is risk created by factors outside the organization, internal risk is created by the organization itself or its decisions, and licensing risk exists through software and other contracts.
88. B. This is an example of a personnel credential policy since it applies to the staff who are
employed by his organization. Policies like this help to ensure that accounts are not shared or
reused. There is no mention of specific devices, service accounts, or administrative accounts.
89. C. The likelihood of occurrence, or probability, is multiplied by the impact to determine a
risk’s severity.
90. D. Organizations can determine how they want to determine asset value, but consistency is
important in many cases. Thus, the original cost, the replacement cost, or a depreciated cost
may be used.
91. A. A business impact analysis (BIA) helps to identify critical systems by determining
which systems will create the largest impact if they are not available. MTBF is the mean
time between failures, an RTO is a recovery time objective, and an ICD was made up for
this question.
92. D. The most common means of transferring breach risk is to purchase cybersecurity insurance. Accepting breaches is rarely considered a valid risk process, blaming breaches on competitors does not actually transfer risk, and selling data to another organization is not a risk
handling process but may be a business process.
93. B. Service accounts are not typically allowed to use interactive logins, and thus prohibiting
interactive logins is a common security policy for them. Limited login hours or locations are
more commonly used for employee accounts when they should not be accessing resources
after hours or from nonwork locations. Frequent password expiration for service accounts is
actually likely to cause a service outage, and many service accounts have complex passwords
and are set with longer password expiration timeframes or are set to never expire.
94. C. The cost of a breach is an example of the impact of a breach. Probability is how likely the
risk is to occur, and risk severity is calculated by multiplying probability and impact.
95. B. Sean is conducting a site risk assessment that will help him understand and communicate
the risks that the site itself has. If the location is in a FEMA-identified flood plain, or if there
are concerns about tornadoes or other natural disasters, those need to be taken into account
as the organization makes its decisions about the location. A BIA identifies mission-critical
functions and the systems that support them. Crime prevention through environmental
design is a design concept that uses the design of facilities to reduce the likelihood of criminal
actions through use of lighting and other controls. Business continuity planning focuses on
how to keep an organization operating despite disruptions.

96. D. SOC 2 engagement assesses the security and privacy controls that are in place, and a
Type 2 report provides information on the auditor’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
controls that are in place. An SOC 1 report assesses the controls that impact the accuracy of
financial reporting. Type 1 reports a review auditor’s opinion of the description provided by
management about the suitability of the controls as designed. They do not look at the actual
operating effectiveness of the controls.
97. B. Ensuring that leadership throughout an organization is aware of the risks the organization faces and that they are regularly updating and providing feedback on those risks helps
increase risk awareness. Inherent risk is risk that exists before controls are in place, and
residual risk is risk that remains after controls are in place. Risk appetite is the risk that an
organization is willing to take as part of doing business.
98. C. State laws often include breach notification thresholds and requirements that organizations must follow. Laura should ensure that she is both aware of the breach laws for
her state and any other states or countries her company operates in, and that her incident
response plans have appropriate processes in place if a breach occurs. Organizations that
process data like SSNs are unlikely to delete them even if a breach occurs, reclassifying data
would not help unless the data was improperly classified before the breach, and data minimization plans are used to limit how much data an organization has, not to respond to a
breach directly.
99. C. Nondisclosure agreements (NDAs) are signed by an employee at the time of hiring,
and they impose a contractual obligation on employees to maintain the confidentiality
of information. Disclosure of information can lead to legal ramifications and penalties.
NDAs cannot ensure a decrease in security breaches. A job rotation policy is the practice of
moving employees between different tasks to promote experience and variety. Separation
of ties has more than one person required to complete a task. Mandatory vacation policy is
used by companies to detect fraud by having a second person, familiar with the duties, help
discover any illicit activities.
100. B. Olivia should establish a service level agreement (SLA) with her provider to ensure that
they meet the expected level of service. If they don’t, financial or other penalties are typically included. Olivia should ensure that those penalties are meaningful to her vendor
to make sure they are motivated to meet the SLA. An MOU is a memorandum of understanding and explains the relationship between two organizations; an MSA is a master
services agreement, which establishes a business relationship under which additional
work orders or other documentation describe the actual work that is done; and a BPA is a
business partnership agreement, which is used when companies wish to partner on efforts
and may outline division of profits or responsibilities in the partnership.
101. D. The most accurate risk descriptor for this is software compliance. Although this is an
internal risk, software compliance fully describes the issue. Intellectual property (IP) theft
risk occurs when an organization’s intellectual property is stolen, not when license violations for third parties occurs. This is not a legacy system, or at least it was not described
that way in the question.

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

295

102. D. Inherent risk is the risk that an organization faces before controls are put in place.
Without risk assessment and controls in place, Gary must first deal with the inherent risks
the organization has as it exists today. Residual risk is the risk that is left after controls are
put in place. The theft of intellectual property (IP) like algorithms, formulas, and processes
are IP risks, and multiparty risk is risk that impacts more than one group, company, or
person.
103. A. The single loss expectancy (SLE) describes what a single risk event is likely to cost. It is
calculated using the asset value (AV) times the exposure factor (EF), which is an estimated
percentage of the cost that will occur in damage if the loss occurs. MTTR is the mean time
to restore, ARO is the annual rate of occurrence, and RTO is the recovery time objective.
These are not part of the SLE equation.
104. C. Third-party credential policies address how contractors and consultants credentials are
handled. This may require sponsorship by an internal staff member, additional controls
regarding password resets or changes, and shorter lifespans, among other controls and
requirements.
105. B. Annual rate of occurrence (ARO) is expressed as the number of times an event will occur
in a year. Wayne has estimated that the risk event that is being assessed will happen three
times a year.
106. D. Although humans can create fires or floods, industrial accidents are the only item on the
list that are exclusively person-made disasters.
107. C. Information on a website made available to customers is typically classified as public
information because it is easily available and intentionally exposed to them. Confidential,
sensitive, or critical information is unlikely to be exposed to customers without a specific
data handling agreement and additional security layers.
108. D. Data processors are service providers that process data for data controllers. A data
controller or data owner is the organization or individual who collects and controls data.
A data steward carries out the intent of the data controller and is delegated responsibility
for the data. Data custodians are those who are entrusted with the data to store, manage, or
secure the data.
109. D. Data masking partially redacts sensitive data by replacing some or all information in
a sensitive data field with blanks or other replacement characters. Tokenization replaces
sensitive data with unique identifiers using a lookup table. Hashing performs a one-way
function on a value to get a unique hash, and encryption protects data using an algorithm
that can be reversed to restore the original data while allowing for confidentiality and integrity validation.
110. C. The Cloud Security Alliance’s reference architecture includes information about tools
in a vendor-neutral manner. CIS provides vendor specific benchmarks for AWS, Azure, and
Oracle’s cloud offerings. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) do not offer this type of resource.

111. C. Locks are physical controls. An example of a managerial control would be a policy or
practice, a technical control can include things like firewalls or antivirus, and corrective
controls are put in place to ensure that a problem or gap in another control is fixed.
112. C. Control risk is a term used in public accounting. It is the risk that arises from a potential
lack of internal controls within an organization that may cause a material misstatement in
the organization’s financial reports. In this case, the lack of controls that would validate the
financial system’s data and function is a control risk.
113. C. Although fires, oil spills, and wars are all potential examples of person-made disasters,
hurricanes remain solely a natural disaster. Some disasters could be either a person-made
or natural disaster. For example, fires can be caused by humans or by nature, as can floods,
and even chemical spills when an earthquake occurs.
114. C. Confidential information is classified by the U.S. government as information that
requires some protection and that if disclosed without authorization, would cause identifiable harm to national security. Top Secret information requires the highest degree of protection and would cause exceptionally grave harm if exposed without authorization. Secret
information requires a substantial degree of protection and would cause serious damage if
exposed. Business Sensitive is not a U.S. government classification but is a term commonly
used in businesses.
115. C. Phone numbers uniquely identify individuals, making them an example of personally
identifiable information, or PII. PHI is protected health information, financial information
includes financial records of all types, and government information is information that
belongs to the government or may be classified by the government and entrusted to an organization.
116. B. Tokenization is an ideal option for this scenario. Tokenization replaces a sensitive
value with an alternate value that can be looked up in a table when the value needs to be
referenced back to its original form. Encryption does not meet this need, data masking only
hides part of the value, and data washing is not a commonly used term for techniques of
this nature.
117. C. Privacy notices are often included on websites to meet the requirements of laws or regulations like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or state privacy laws.
118. C. Nicole is a data controller, sometimes called a data owner. She determines the reasons
for processing personal information and how it is processed. A data steward carries out the
intents of the data controller, data custodians are charged with safeguarding information,
and data consumer is not a common data privacy role.
119. B. This is an internal disaster—one in which internal issues have led to a problem. An
external disaster would be caused by forces outside the organization like a natural disaster,
malicious activity, or other outside forces. An RTO, or recovery time objective, is not a type
of disaster, and an MRO disaster was made up for this question.
120. C. Minimizing the amount of data that is collected is the first step in ensuring that organizations can handle the volume and types of data that they work with. After that, classifying it
and then determining how long you retain it are also important parts of the data life cycle.

Chapter 5: Governance, Risk, and Compliance

297

121. D. Kirk has mitigated the risk to his organization by increasing the resources targeted by
the DoS attack in an attempt to ensure that the attack will not be successful. Acceptance
would involve simply letting the attacks occur knowing they are likely to stop, avoidance
might involve finding a way to ensure the attacks cannot occur, and transfer could leverage
a third-party mirror or anti-DoS hosting service.
122. A. A multiparty risk involves multiple organizations. Since there are multiple customers
and organizations involved, this is an example of multiparty risk. An internal risk originates
inside an organization—instead, this is an external risk. A legacy system risk is created by a
system or process that is no longer supported or updated. An intellectual property (IP) theft
risk occurs when proprietary information or trade secrets might be exposed or lost.
123. B. EOL, or end of life, occurs when a service or system is no longer supported, available,
or does not function. Natasha needs to plan to transition smoothly away from the service,
either to a replacement service or to stop using the service itself. An MOU is a memorandum of understanding, and an NDA is a nondisclosure agreement, neither of which is
directly relevant here. A last will and testament is not used for a service EOL.
124. C. The Center for Internet Security (CIS) provides a wide range of OS, application, server,
and other benchmarks. Microsoft provides benchmarks for their own operating systems but
does not provide Linux benchmarks. The National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) does not provide benchmarks, but the National Security Agency (NSA) does.
125. C. Offboarding processes are conducted to ensure that accounts and access is removed and
that materials, computers, and data are all recovered from the staff member when a member
of an organization leaves. Exit interviews are an HR process, job rotation helps to prevent
an individual from conducting fraudulent activities over time, and governance helps to manage and maintain data by establishing high level control over the processes, procedures, and
classification of the data an organization uses.
126. D. Public, private, sensitive, confidential, critical, and proprietary are all commonly
used data classification labels for business. Secret, however, is more commonly used in
government classification schemes.
127. D. Privacy notices are frequently provided as part of license or contractual terms, as well as
in website usage agreements.

Index

A
academic journals, 211
acceptable use policy (AUP), 161,
172, 283, 290
access control lists (ACLs), 130, 266–267
access policies, 265–266
accounts
disabling, 254
Guest, 103–104, 113, 251, 258
service, 251, 293
user, 258
active nodes, 238–239
active reconnaissance, 29, 203
active scans, 16, 195
ad hoc wireless networks, 98–99, 248
Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)
blocking, 257
poisoning, 2, 7, 24, 25, 186, 190, 200
spoofing, 200
administrative controls, 287
Advanced Encryption Standard
(AES), 52, 217
advanced persistent threats (APTs), 13, 18,
20, 21, 191, 193, 196, 197, 273
adware, 17, 193, 195, 198
air gapping, 78, 213, 235
AIS service, 208
alarms, 68, 227–228
allow lists, 130, 266–267
annual loss expectancy (ALE), 167,
169, 287, 289
annual rate of occurrence (ARO), 169,
287, 289, 295
anomaly-based detection systems, 263
anonymization, 171–172, 290

antivirus (AV) programs, 10, 165,
191, 284, 285
Apache log, 38, 209
application block list, 274
application counter, 221
application programming interface (API), 5,
51, 79, 188, 216, 236, 258
Arduino, 48, 214
artifacts, 270, 272
artificial intelligence (AI), 210
asset management policies, 291
asset value (AV), 295
asymmetric cryptography, 71, 230
asymmetric warfare, 196
@ command, 275
attestation processes, 233
attribute-based access control (ABAC),
114, 255, 259
audio steganography, 77, 234
audit/auditing, 196, 198, 262
authentication, authorization, and accounting
(AAA), 231
Authentication Header (AH), 85, 239, 248
authority, 24, 200
automation, 225
Autopsy, 274, 275
awareness training, 5, 188

B
backdoor, 8, 19, 21, 22, 24, 190,
196, 198, 200
back-off algorithms, 246
backups, 130–131, 267
badges, 66, 226
BadUSB, 199

300

baseline configurations – collusion

baseline configurations, 53, 217
baselining, 56, 219, 245
Bash shell, 26, 150, 201, 278
bastion host, 249
Bcrypt algorithm, 80, 236
biometric scans, 48, 214–215
birthday attack, 11, 12, 21, 28, 192, 198, 203
bit, 214
BitLocker keys, 230
black hole, 52, 216
black-box test, 190, 200, 201, 203, 204
blacklisting, 91, 243, 244
block cipher, 214
blockchain, 51, 216
blue teams, 4–5, 22, 30, 188, 199, 204
bluejacking, 3, 5, 10, 11, 27, 32, 186, 188,
191, 192, 202, 205
bluesnarfing, 5, 10, 32, 188, 191, 205
bollards, 55, 66, 219, 226
bookmarks, 271
boot attestation, 254
boot sector virus, 16, 17, 195
botnets, 7, 17, 189, 195
Bridge Protocol Data Unit (BDPU), 262
bring your own device (BYOD), 105, 252
brute-force attacks, 12, 13, 19, 21, 71, 192,
193, 197, 198, 203, 230
buffer overflow, 5, 16, 18, 21, 22, 26, 188,
194, 195, 196, 198, 199, 201, 243
bug bounties, 35, 207
burning media, 79, 236
business continuity plan (BCP), 275
business impact analysis (BIA), 165,
177, 285, 293
business partnership agreement (BPA), 162,
165, 179, 283–284, 286, 294

C
cable locks, 55, 219
Cacti, 274
captive portal, 83, 238
card cloning, 29, 198, 203

cat command, 269
Center for Internet Security (CIS), 167, 174,
180–181, 183, 287, 291, 297
CentOS, 270
certificate authority (CA), 264
certificate chains, 262
certificate expiration tracking, 204
certificate pinning, 266
certificate revocation lists (CRLs), 241
certificate stapling, 85, 239
-c flag, 268
chain of custody, 132–133, 268, 273
Challenge Handshake Authentication
Protocol (CHAP), 106, 120,
251, 252, 263
change management, 161, 282–283
CIA triad, 202
clean desk policy, 161, 162, 164, 169,
283, 285, 289
clickjacking, 3, 44, 186, 212
client-side tampering, 48, 214
closed threat intelligence, 205
closed-circuit television (CCTV), 71,
165, 230, 286
cloud access security broker (CASB), 59–60,
125, 222, 239, 265
cloud applications, 264
cloud backups, 223
Cloud Control Matrix maps, 292
cloud firewall, 103, 251
Cloud Security Alliance, 292, 295
cloud service
providers in, 234
vulnerabilities in, 204
code
digitally signed, 248
formatting, 195
reviewing, 247
signing, 244
code reuse attack, 61, 223
cold aisle, 59, 221
cold site, 50, 68, 215, 228
collisions, 12, 71, 193, 230
collusion, 169, 288–289

common name (CN) – digital forensics

common name (CN), 90, 242
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures
(CVE), 11, 192, 211
community cloud, 64, 65, 225
compensating control, 164, 285, 287
conditional access, 118, 261
configuration
managing, 259
reviews of, 212
weak, 196
consensus, 16, 194
containerization, 252
containment, 132, 150, 268, 278, 280
content filter, 272
Content-Addressable Memory (CAM), 272
context-aware authentication, 249
Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP),
133, 147, 150, 268, 276, 278
continuous integration/continuous delivery
(CI/CD), 64, 225
control diversity, 235
control risks, 290, 296
cookies, 88, 241
corrective control, 284
correlation dashboards, 130, 267
counter mode (CTR), 50–51, 215
coverage overlap, 254
credential harvesting, 5, 188
credentialed scan, 17, 195
criminal syndicates, 9, 191
cross-over error rate (CER), 65, 70, 226, 229
cross-site request forgery (XSRF), 11, 16, 21,
26, 36, 44, 192, 194, 198, 201, 208, 212
cross-site scripting (XSS), 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 11, 16,
20, 21, 26, 36, 186, 188, 190, 192, 194,
197, 198, 201, 208
cryptographic hashes, 186, 227
Cuckoo, 146, 276
Cuckoo Sandbox, 136, 270
curl command, 155, 281
customer data, 293
CVSS standard, 132, 267
Cyber Kill Chain, 132, 145, 267, 276
cyberintelligence fusion, 11, 192

301

D
dark web, 30, 203
data
governance policy for, 172, 290
masking of, 166, 286, 295
minimization of, 166, 182, 286, 296
retention policy for, 167, 169, 287, 289
storing, 223
data breaches
common results of, 290
cost of, 293
notifications for, 277
recovering from, 292
data controller, 296
Data Encryption Standard (DES), 52, 217
data loss prevention (DLP), 72, 124, 139,
142–143, 231, 253, 265, 272, 274, 277
data owner, 296
data processors, 180, 295
data protection officer (DPO), 176, 292
data retrieval, 241
data sovereignty, 229
database administrator (DBA), 226
deadbolts, 229
deepfakes, 219
degaussing, 79, 236, 258, 273
demilitarized zone (DMZ), 72, 78, 89, 90,
107, 108, 111, 112, 230, 231, 235, 242,
243, 253, 255, 257
denial-of-service (DoS) attack, 22, 34, 38,
198, 206–207, 209–210
deployment policies, 53, 217
deprovisioning, 56, 219
detective control, 163, 164, 167, 284,
285, 286, 287
deterrent control, 164, 167, 284, 285, 287
development server, 51, 216
Diamond Model, 132, 267
dictionary attacks, 9, 12, 28, 191, 192, 203
differential backups, 65, 225
digital certificates, 246, 260
digital forensics, 57, 220, 268, 270, 272, 273,
277, 281–282

302

digital signatures – Feedburner

digital signatures, 48, 76, 214, 233
directory traversal attacks, 30–31, 204
disassociation attack, 12, 13, 192, 193
disaster recovery (DR) plan, 147, 154, 172,
175, 180, 276, 281, 290, 292, 296
discretionary access control (DAC), 111,
114, 257, 259
disk backup, 62, 223
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)
format, 126, 266
distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack,
13, 22, 187, 190, 193, 195, 198, 222
DLL injection, 18, 196
DNS logs, 133, 268–269
dnsenum tool, 147, 276, 277
domain experts, 207
domain hijacking, 6, 189
Domain Name System (DNS)
DNS hijacking, 6, 189
DNS server, 212
DNS sinkhole, 58, 221
poisoning attacks, 7, 21, 24, 190, 198, 200
Domain Name System Security Extension
(DNSSEC), 99, 238, 248
domain reputation services, 8, 190
domain theft, 189
downgrade attacks, 12, 31, 193, 204
drones, 57, 206, 220, 233
dual control, 237
due care, 161, 282–283
due diligence, 161, 282–283
dump file, 279
dumpster diving, 28, 191, 202
dynamic code review, 247
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
(DHCP), 87, 101, 240, 250, 279

E
EAP Tunneled Transport Layer Security
(EAP-TTLS), 94, 245, 251
EAP-FAST, 94, 245
east-west traffic, 82, 237

edge computing, 74, 232, 236
802.1x, 80, 119, 236, 262
elasticity, in cloud computing, 56, 226
electromagnetic interference (EML), 218
electronic discovery (e-discovery), 282
electronic locks, 229
elicitation, 16, 195
elliptical curve cryptography (ECC), 74,
214, 215, 232
email headers, 278
embedded systems, 216, 224
encryption, 76, 78, 101, 234, 235, 249
encryption keys, 231
end of life (EOL), 183, 297
endpoint detection and response
(EDR), 102, 250
entropy, 54, 218
error handling, 14, 44, 194, 212
escalation, 284
evil twin attack, 10, 11, 20, 24, 32, 191, 192,
197, 200, 205
exit interviews, 193, 297
exposure factor (EF), 295
extended validation (EV), 252
Extensible Authentication Protocol
(EAP), 251

F
facial recognition systems, 71, 223, 230
fake telemetry, 56, 219
false acceptance rate (FAR), 70, 226, 229
false negative, 15, 36, 194, 208
false positive, 15, 36, 194, 208
false rejection rate (FRR), 70, 229
familiarity, 16, 194
Faraday cage, 55, 69, 218, 229, 233
Federal Bureau of Investigations
(FBI), 150, 278
Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), 150, 278
Federal Trade Commission (FTC), 174, 291
Feedburner, 34, 206

fencing – identity theft

fencing, 232
FIDO U2F, 84, 238
field-programmable gate array
(FPGA), 48, 214
file permissions, 266
File Transfer Protocol (FTP), 16, 195
File Transfer Protocol Secure (FTPS), 239
fileless virus, 199
filesystems, 256
fingerprint reader systems, 62, 223
firewalls, 77, 88, 216, 234, 241, 286
firmware, 223, 269
5G, 79, 236
fog aggregator, 101, 249
fog computing, 80, 236
footprinting, 35, 207
formatting code, 195
forward proxy, 112, 114, 257
FTK Imager, 270, 274
full-disk encryption (FDE), 52, 63, 90, 112,
117, 216–217, 219, 224, 226, 242, 252,
253, 258, 261, 275
fully qualified domain name (FQDN), 242
function-as-a-service (FaaS), 221
fuzzing, 101, 245, 249–250, 252

G
gait analysis, 64, 225
gamification, 175, 292
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR),
162, 170, 283, 289, 292
generator, 75, 233
generators, 165–166, 286
geofence, 95, 245
geolocation, 213
GitHub, 40, 210
Global Positioning System (GPS), 89, 241
government data, 290
gray market, 38, 209
gray-box test, 201
grep command, 144, 275
Guest accounts, 103–104, 113, 251, 258

303

H
hacktivism, 196
hacktivists, 18, 19, 39, 196, 210
hardening, 93, 242, 244, 259
hardware firewall, 103, 251
hardware security model (HSM), 52, 95, 217,
246, 256, 259
hash functions, 47, 213, 214
hashing, 101, 130, 249, 266, 269, 275, 295
hashing passwords, 71, 74, 223,
230, 232, 244
head command, 269
health information, 172, 290
heatmaps, 243
HMAC-based one-time password (HOTP),
69, 228, 231, 238
hoax, 36, 208
homomorphic encryption, 62, 223
honeyfiles, 80, 236
honeynets, 52, 215, 216
honeypots, 49–50, 52, 215, 216, 219
host-based firewalls, 117, 261
host-based intrusion prevention system
(HIPS), 117, 259, 261
hot aisle, 59, 221
hot site, 50, 68, 215, 228
hping tool, 152, 279
HTTP ports, 211
HVAC systems, 53, 218
hybrid computing, 74, 232
hybrid deployment model, 65, 225
hybrid models, 54, 218
hybrid warfare, 36, 208
hypervisor, 54, 218, 273

I
identity and access management (IAM), 231
identity attributes, 242
identity fraud, 39, 210
identity provider (IdP), 83, 238
identity theft, 210

304

identity-as-a-service (IDaaS) – lighting

identity-as-a-service (IDaaS), 58, 221
impact categories, 211
impersonation, 16, 195
incident response, 267, 273, 276, 278
indicators of compromise (IoC), 4, 187
industrial camouflage, 72, 230
inert gas systems, 233
Information Sharing and Analysis Centers
(ISACs), 206
infrared (IR), 71, 230, 251
infrastructure as a service (IaaS), 54, 58, 64,
78, 209, 218, 221, 225, 235, 253
infrastructure as code (IaC), 60, 222
inherent risk, 179, 181, 295
initialization vectors (IVs), 2, 11,
186, 192, 232
input handling, 40, 210
input validation, 2, 186, 243, 249–250
insider threats, 18, 196, 261
integer overflow, 22, 26, 199, 201
integrity checking, 56, 219
intelligence fusion, 33, 205
interconnection security agreement (ISA),
162, 176, 283–284, 292
internal disaster, 296
internal risks, 289
internal services, 255
International Organization for
Standardization (ISO), 295
Internet key exchange (IKE), 249
Internet Relay Chat (IRC), 202
intrusion detection system (IDS), 2, 13,
49–50, 52, 58, 117, 139, 174, 186,
193, 215, 216, 221, 227, 241, 250,
261, 272, 291
intrusion prevention system (IPS), 38, 52,
113, 165, 188, 209–210, 211, 216, 227,
241, 253, 258, 261, 279, 286, 291
intrusive scan, 17, 19, 195, 196
invoice scams, 25, 200
IP addresses, 70, 216, 229, 240, 250, 266
IP spoofing, 20, 23, 44, 197, 199, 212
IPFIX, 156, 282
IPSec, 88, 143, 239, 241, 263, 274

iptables, 273
iris scans, 62, 223
ISA/IEC standards, 46, 212
ISO 27002, 161, 282
ISO 27017, 161, 282
IT process, 277

J
jailbreaking, 104, 252
jamming attack, 2, 186
job rotation policy, 161, 164, 166, 169, 179,
283, 284–285, 286, 288–289, 294
John the Ripper, 149, 278
journalctl tool, 155, 156, 281, 282
jump boxes, 253
jurisdictional boundaries, 149, 278

K
Kerberos, 60, 102, 103, 106, 107, 109, 116,
222, 250, 251, 252, 254, 260
key distribution center (KDC), 116, 260
key escrow, 108, 254
key length, 231
key reuse, 72, 73, 230, 232
key stretching, 48, 214, 236
keylogger, 13, 193
keys, 214
knowledge-based authentication, 242
known environment test, 7–8, 17, 24, 25, 31,
190, 195, 200, 201, 204

L
lateral movement, 15, 194
least connection-based load
balancing, 85, 239
least privilege, 161, 282
legacy systems, 33–34, 206, 291
legal hold, 280
lighting, as a deterrent, 74, 232

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) – network address translation (NAT)

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP),
29, 56, 80, 96, 203, 219, 236, 246, 255
Lightweight Extensible Authentication
Protocol (LEAP), 104, 237, 251
Linux kernel, 232
Linux privilege, 207
load balancing, 102, 247, 250
locks, 69, 70, 162, 181, 229, 283, 296
log aggregation, 4, 187, 196
logger utility, 273
logging, 199
logic bomb, 2, 9, 10, 14, 16, 18, 19, 22,
27, 28, 186, 190, 191, 194, 195, 196,
199, 201, 202
loop protection, 123, 264
low-power devices, 70–71, 229–230

M
machine learning (ML), 207, 210
macro virus, 9, 17, 190, 195
malware, 8, 26, 27, 186, 189, 190, 191, 194,
195, 196, 201, 212, 237–238, 282
managed security service providers
(MSSPs), 227
mandatory access control (MAC), 14, 111,
114, 193, 233, 257, 259, 281, 294
mandatory vacation policy, 161, 162, 283
man-in-the-browser attack, 26, 201
mantrap, 219
mapping networks, 271
masking, 74, 78, 232, 235
MD5, 80, 236, 269
mean time between failures (MTBF), 168,
169, 171, 172, 288, 289, 290
mean time to repair (MTTR), 168, 169, 171,
288, 289, 290
measured boot, 259
media, burning, 236
Media Access Control (MAC), 188
memdump tool, 273
memorandum of understanding (MOU), 162,
176, 179, 183, 283–284, 292, 294, 297

305

memory exhaustion, 202
memory leaks, 22, 199, 201, 202, 231
Metasploit, 146, 276
MFPs, 222
microcontroller, 214
microservice architectures, 222
Microsoft Office, 277
misconfiguration, 192
mist computing, 74, 232
MITRE ATT&CK framework, 132, 267
mobile application management (MAM), 264
mobile device management (MDM), 82–83,
113, 116, 117, 124, 237, 258, 260,
265, 272, 275
motion activation, 71, 230
motion detection, 69, 228
motion recognition, 58, 221
multifactor authentication, 5, 78, 188, 235, 262
multipartite virus, 27, 201
multiparty risk, 183, 297
Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
(MIME) sniffing, 82, 237
MX records, 270

N
naming conventions, 224
National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST), 180–181, 295
National Security Agency (NSA), 150, 174,
278, 291, 297
nation-state actors, 19, 196, 197
natural disasters, 76, 233
Near-Field Communication (NFC), 23,
103, 199, 251
Nessus, 134–135, 146, 269, 276
net user command, 262
netcat command, 137, 270
NetFlow, 134, 269, 271
netstat command, 133, 153, 156,
268, 280, 282
network address translation (NAT), 102,
118, 250, 261

306

network attached storage (NAS) – password vaults

network attached storage (NAS), 46,
62, 213, 223
network flows, 269, 271
network interface cards (NICs), 229
network intrusion detection system
(NIDS), 67, 227
network intrusion prevention system (NIPS),
52, 67, 216–217, 227, 249
network load balancers, 77, 234
network location, 213
network taps, 248
Network Time Protocol (NTP), 240, 251
network-based intrusion prevention system
(NIPS), 100, 248
New Technology LAN Manager (NTLM),
102, 109, 250, 254
next-generation firewalls (NGFWs), 111–112,
256, 257, 264
NIC teaming, 70, 229
NIST 800-12, 282
NIST 800-14, 282
nmap tool, 133, 268
nondisclosure agreement (NDA), 162, 179,
183, 283, 286, 294, 297
nonintrusive scan, 19, 196
normalization, 56, 219, 226
North American Electric Reliability
Corporation (NERC), 46, 212
NULL pointer, 3, 187
NXLog, 150, 156, 278, 282

O
OATH-HOTP, 238
OAuth, 60, 80, 107, 110, 222, 236,
253, 255, 263
object detection, 69, 228
offboarding, 164, 170, 193, 284–285, 289, 297
offsite storage, 224
onboarding, 162, 164, 166, 170, 283,
284–285, 286, 289
One Time Password (OTP), 238
Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP),
89, 239, 241

on-path (man-in-the-middle) attack, 25, 26,
28, 201, 202
on-premises cloud computing, 235
on-premises networks, 217
open source firewalls, 265
open source intelligence (OSINT),
4, 16, 29, 31, 32, 187, 189,
195, 203, 205
Open Web Application Security Project
(OWASP), 46, 211, 212
OpenID, 56, 60, 100, 107, 109, 110, 219,
222, 248, 253, 254, 255, 263
OpenPGP, 238
OpenSSL, 275
openssl command, 269
OpenVAS scanner, 42, 211
operating system (OS) threats, 114–115,
215, 259
operational security (OPSEC), 29, 203
operational technology (OT), 35–36,
198, 207–208
order of volatility, 273–274
original equipment manufacturer
(OEM), 72, 231
out-of-band (OOB) management,
108, 253
over-the-air (OTA), 123, 264

P
packet capture, 4, 187
parking policy, 164, 285
partially known environment test,
195, 201
passive reconnaissance, 29, 189, 203
pass-the-hash attack, 24, 191, 200
Password Authentication Protocol
(PAP), 103, 251
password cracker, 275, 278
password hashing, 247
password history, 262
password managers, 248
password spraying, 19, 197
password vaults, 248

passwords – quality assurance (QA)

passwords
aging, 263
complexity of, 258
storing, 142, 208, 274
patching, 95, 174, 246, 281, 291
pathping, 276
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard
(PCI-DSS), 162, 171, 175, 283, 290, 292
PBKDF2 algorithm, 236
penetration tests, 5, 28, 37, 68, 188, 191,
196, 199, 202, 205, 209, 227–228
pepper, 3, 186
perfect forward secrecy (PFS), 49, 214
permissions
auditing, 257
setting, 35, 207
permissions creep, 3, 187
personal identification number (PIN), 241
Personal Information Exchange (PFX),
87–88, 240–241
personally identifiable information
(PII), 235, 291
personnel credential policy, 293
-p flag, 267
pharming attacks, 19, 197
phishing, 2, 6, 9, 13, 23, 25, 27, 28, 36, 186,
189, 191, 193, 199, 200, 202, 208, 217
picture passwords, 47, 213
pie charts, 31, 205
ping command, 271
pivot, 8, 190
plain-text password attack, 10, 191
platform as a service (PaaS), 54, 58, 64, 73,
78, 218, 221, 225, 232, 235
playbooks, 142, 154, 274, 276, 281
point-to-multipoint topology, 248
point-to-point topology, 248
policies, 283, 285, 289, 294
polymorphic virus, 198
POP3, 85, 239
port scans, 211, 270
port security, 83, 238, 248
Postgres server, 194
potentially unwanted programs (PUPs), 14,
21, 29, 193, 198, 203

307

power distribution unit (PDU), 75,
226, 233, 247
PowerShell, 23, 40, 199, 211, 222
predictive analysis, 4, 187, 210
prepending, 20, 33, 37, 197, 206, 209
preproduction environments, 216
preshared key (PSK), 100, 244–245, 248
pretexting, 16, 33, 195, 206
preventive controls, 166, 167, 286, 287
prime factorization algorithms, 50, 215
Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) files, 126,
240–241, 266
privacy notices, 184, 296, 297
private cloud, 65, 78, 225, 235
private keys, 48, 49, 214, 247, 280
privilege creep, 80, 236
privilege escalation, 13, 15, 20, 34, 193, 194,
197, 206–207
privilege scan, 195
privileged access management (PAM),
265
production server, 51, 216
proprietary data, 285, 293
proprietary intelligence, 32, 205
protected cable distribution, 77, 234
Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol
(PEAP), 94, 237, 245
protocols, 212
provenance, 151, 275, 279
proximity card readers, 75, 233
PRTG, 274
pseudonymization, 171–172, 290
public cloud, 64, 65, 225
public key infrastructure (PKI), 256, 264
public keys, 48, 49, 214, 247
purple teams, 4–5, 22, 30, 188, 199, 204
push notifications, 82–83, 237
Python, 17, 195

Q
qualitative risk assessment, 162, 165,
174–175, 283, 285, 291
quality assurance (QA), 216

308

quantitative risk assessment – scanless tool

quantitative risk assessment, 162, 165, 168,
174–175, 283, 285, 288, 291
quantum computing, 72, 231
quantum cryptography, 215
quantum encryption, 50, 215
quarantine process, 153, 272, 280
Qubits, 215
quick formatting, 148, 277

R
race conditions, 14, 23, 194, 199
radio frequency identifier (RFID), 11, 23, 27,
75, 96, 192, 199, 202, 233, 246
RAID, 55, 56, 71, 218, 219, 230
rainbow tables, 9, 12, 21, 191, 193,
198, 203, 298
ransomware, 22, 199
Raspberry Pi, 48, 214
rate limiting, 246
rebooting, 276
reconnaissance phase, of penetration
testing, 37, 209
recovery, 131, 267
recovery point objective (RPO), 169, 289
recovery time objective (RTO), 166,
177, 287, 292
Red Hat, 270
red teams, 4–5, 22, 24, 30, 188,
199, 200, 204
refactoring, 8, 36, 190, 208
registration authority (RA), 239
remote access, 246
Remote Authentication Dial-in User Service
(RADIUS), 56, 100, 219, 231, 246, 248
remote registry, 254
remote wipe, 82–83, 237, 252
remote-access Trojan (RAT), 10, 14, 17, 21,
29, 32, 191, 193, 195, 198, 203, 205
replay attack, 25, 29, 201, 203
reputational gains, 210
requests for comments (RFCs), 63, 224
resource constraints, 234

resource policies, 54, 218
resource-based policies, 98, 247
restoration order, 213
retention policies, 138, 271
retina scans, 62, 223
reverse proxy, 112, 114, 125, 127, 257, 266
reverse shell, 205
-R flag, 272
right-to-audit clauses, 280
risk acceptance, 163, 166, 167, 168,
284, 287, 288
risk avoidance, 163, 166, 167, 168,
284, 287, 288
risk heat maps, 174–175, 291
risk mitigation, 163, 166, 167, 168, 182, 284,
287, 288, 297
risk register, 166, 171, 287, 290
risk transfer, 163, 166, 167, 168,
284, 287, 288
robocalling, 28, 202
rogue access point, 3, 11, 186, 192
role-based access control (RBAC), 110, 111,
114, 255, 257, 259
root certificate, 249
root grabbing, 13, 193
Root Guard, 240
rootkit, 2, 9, 10, 13, 14, 19, 22, 27, 186, 190,
191, 193, 194, 196, 199, 201, 202
route command, 268
RSA key, 49, 214
RSH, 16, 195
RTO, 50, 215
RTOS, 61, 223
rule of engagement, for penetration
tests, 32, 205
rule-based access control, 255

S
salts, 3, 49, 79, 186, 214, 223, 235
sandboxing, 53, 54, 217, 218, 244
scalability, in cloud computing, 56, 226
scanless tool, 136, 270

scarcity – social proof

scarcity, 5, 16, 188, 194
script kiddies, 6, 18, 33, 189, 196, 205
scripting, 65, 225
scrypt algorithm, 236
secrets management services, 102, 250
secure cookies, 241
secure IMAPs, 247
Secure Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
(LDAPS), 115, 259
Secure POP3, 84, 238
Secure Shell (SSH), 43, 86, 97, 98, 195, 212,
238, 240, 247, 253, 278
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), 31, 67,
204, 220, 227
Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions (S/MIME), 84, 238
Security Account Manager (SAM) file, 204
Security Assertion Markup Language
(SAML), 56, 60, 80, 102, 116, 219, 222,
236, 250, 253, 255, 260, 263
security audits, 5, 188
Security Enhanced Linus (SELinux), 265
security groups, 117, 261
security guard, 59, 69, 221, 229
security information and event management
(SIEM) device, 4, 31, 72, 187–188, 204,
205, 210, 231, 249
security monitoring, 187–188
security orchestration, automation,
and response (SOAR), 8, 31, 39,
190, 204, 210
security zones, 90, 242–243
segmentation, 150, 151, 255, 275, 278, 279
segmentation fault, 187
self-encrypting drive (SED), 52, 63, 217, 224
self-signed certificate, 87, 240
sensor appliances, 247
sensors, 272
separation of duties, 166, 169, 179, 286,
288–289, 294
serverless architectures, 58, 221
server-side request forgery (SSRF), 7,
36, 189, 208
service accounts, 251, 293

309

service level agreement (SLA), 162, 176, 179,
283–284, 286, 292, 294
service organization report (SOC), 39, 210
Service Set Identifiers (SSIDs), 246
session hijacking, 3, 12, 13, 18, 26, 186, 192,
193, 196, 201
session IDs, 211
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP),
239, 270, 278
session persistence, 253
sFlow, 269, 271
SFTP, 195
SHA1 algorithm, 80, 236, 269
shimming, 8, 24, 190, 200
Shiva Password Authentication Protocol
(SPAP), 103, 251
short message service (SMS) messages,
69, 217, 228
shoulder surfing, 25, 28, 33, 200, 202, 206
signage, 68, 228
silent patching, 36, 208
Simple Network Management Protocol
(SNMP), 98, 120, 126, 247, 252,
263, 266, 274
simulation, 272
simultaneous authentication of equals
(SAE), 243
single loss expectancy (SLE), 163, 284, 295
single point of failure (SPOF), 168,
176, 288, 292
Single Sign-On (SSO), 113, 255, 258
site survey, 237
skimmer, 29, 203
smartcards, 68, 69, 227, 229, 238
smishing, 27, 189, 202
SMS pushes, 234
Smurf attack, 25, 200
snapshots, 54, 65, 218, 225
SOC2 engagement, 294
social engineering, 9, 16, 24, 187, 191, 194,
195, 200, 206
social login, 73, 231
social media influence campaigns, 18, 196
social proof, 194

310

software – threat actors

software
compiling, 63, 224
updates for, 202
software as a service (SaaS), 54, 58, 73,
218, 221, 232
software firewall, 103, 251
software-defined networking (SDN), 52, 55,
59, 67, 217, 218, 221, 227
source code, 290
SourceForge, 40, 210
spam, 6, 189
sparse infector virus, 195
spear phishing, 2, 9, 28, 186, 189, 191, 202
SPIM, 3, 187
split horizon DNS, 99, 248
split-tunnel VPNs, 123, 264
spyware, 14, 193, 198
SQL injection, 2, 3, 10, 20, 22, 51, 57, 186,
189, 191, 197, 198, 216, 220, 245, 280
SRTP, 238
SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP), 252
staging environments, 51, 216
staging server, 53, 217
stakeholder management, 133, 138, 268, 271
standards, 224
state actors, 18, 196
state laws, 294
stateful inspection firewall, 91, 243
stateful packet inspection (SPI), 91, 243
stateless firewall, 255
Statement of Standards for Attestation
Engagements (SSAEs), 290
static codes, 230, 245, 247, 252
storage area network (SAN), 54, 62, 218, 223
stored procedures, 66, 220, 226
storm control, 257
stream ciphers, 192
string injection, 243
strings command, 136, 270
Structured Query Language (SQL), 203
Structured Threat Intelligence Exchange
(STIX) protocol, 23, 29, 199, 203
Subject Alternate Name (SAN), 246
subnet mask, 46, 212

subscriber identity module (SIM), 234
subscription services, 241
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) system, 52, 67, 215,
216–217, 227
supply chain risk, 291
swapfiles, 34, 206–207, 273
symmetric cryptography, 71, 230
symmetric encryption, 49, 53–54, 214, 218
SYN flood, 33, 206, 243
syslog, 38, 152, 156, 209, 279, 282
system crash file, 274
system dump file, 274
system on a chip (SoC), 224
system restore point, 68, 228

T
tabletop exercises, 267
tagging drives, 279
tail command, 269
tailgating, 23, 39, 199, 210
tape backups, 62, 223
TAXII, 23, 199
TCP handshakes, 4, 187
TCP port 23, 34, 206
TCP port 443, 43, 212
tcpdump, 267
tcpreplay tool, 279
technical controls, 286
Telnet, 16, 43, 195, 206, 212
Terminal Access Controller Access Control
System Plus (TACACS+), 116, 260
terminate and stay resident (TSR), 220
test server, 51, 216
testing, 284
theHarvester, 132, 267
third-party code, risks of, 59, 222
third-party credential policies, 295
third-party risks, 210
third-party secure destruction
companies, 47, 213
threat actors, 207

threat assessment – vishing

threat assessment, 165, 285
threat hunting, 37, 208
threat intelligence, 205
threat maps, 31, 205
threat vectors, 40, 210
thumb drives, 71, 230
time-based one-time password
(TOTP), 69, 228
timeboxing, 249–250
timelines, building, 277
time-to-live (TTL), 137–138, 271
TLS inspection, 56, 220
tokenization, 74, 101, 180, 232,
249, 295, 296
tokens, 77, 78, 110, 235, 255
Tor, 30, 203
TOTP, 238
tracert command, 143, 147, 274, 276
traffic, stopping, 244
training, 284, 292
transit gateways, 53, 217
Transport Layer Security (TLS), 67, 86, 90,
103, 104, 105, 108, 193, 227, 239, 240,
242, 251, 252, 253
trends, 281
Trojan horse, 2, 8, 9, 14, 17, 19, 21, 27, 28,
31, 34, 44, 186, 190, 193, 194, 195, 196,
198, 199, 201, 202, 204, 206–207, 212
trusted boot, 259
Trusted Foundry, 31, 46, 205, 212
Trusted Platform Module (TPM), 55, 63,
90, 115, 218, 224, 226, 242, 244, 249,
250, 259, 264
trust/trusting, 24, 200, 210, 244
two-factor authentication, 219
two-person control schemes, 73, 231
typo squatting, 6, 44, 188–189, 212

U
UEFI Secure Boot, 263
unified endpoint management
(UEM), 116, 260

311

Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI),
115, 254, 259, 261, 263
unified threat management (UTM), 258
uniform resource locator (URL)
URL filter, 154, 281
URL redirection, 26, 30, 201, 204
URL shortening, 204
uninterruptible power supply (UPS), 66, 75,
226, 233, 247
universal endpoint management
(UEM), 125, 265
unknown environment test, 7–8, 24, 25, 31,
190, 195, 200, 201, 204
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), 76, 233
urgency, 24, 200
U.S. Department of Agriculture
(USDA), 150, 278
USB data blockers, 73, 231
user accounts, 258
user behavior analysis, 187

V
vendor diversity, 46, 213, 237–238
vendor support, 7, 9, 189, 191
version numbering, 67, 227
vertical movement, 15, 194
-v flag, 280
Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI),
94, 222, 245
virtual firewall, 103, 251, 261
virtual IP (VIP), 247
virtual LAN (VLAN), 90, 242–243, 260
virtual machine (VM)
escape attacks, 57, 58, 66, 220, 226
forensics, 278
sprawl, 57, 66, 220, 226
virtual private clouds (VPCs), 217, 261
virtual private network (VPN), 86, 90, 95,
240, 242, 245, 250
virtualization, 220
virus, 28, 202
vishing, 28, 53, 202, 217, 239

312

Visual Basic for Application (VBA) script – Zigbee

Visual Basic for Application (VBA)
script, 195
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), 77, 234
Volatility framework, 279
vulnerability assessment, 30, 162, 204, 283
vulnerability scans, 5, 25, 43, 188,
200, 211, 212

W
war dialing, 28, 86, 202, 207, 239
war driving, 16, 195
war flying, 16, 33, 195, 206
war walking, 195, 207
warm site, 50, 68, 215, 228
watering hole attacks, 18, 29, 33, 37, 196,
203, 206, 209
wearables, 228
web application firewall (WAF), 52, 103, 154,
186, 211, 216, 251, 281
web page titles, 270
web proxy, 250, 252
whaling, 9, 22, 37, 191, 199, 209
white teams, 4–5, 22, 30, 35, 188,
199, 204, 207
white-box test, 190, 200, 201, 203, 204
whitelisting, 91, 243
Wi-Fi hotspots, 190

Wi-Fi networks, 252
Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS), 2, 88,
186, 192, 241
wildcard certificate, 87, 240
Windows Defender Firewall, 148, 277
WinHex, 274
wireless access point (WAP), 2, 3, 186
wireless network heatmaps, 91–92, 243
wireless routers, 204
Wireshark, 136, 137, 138, 152, 270,
271, 278, 279
worms, 13, 23, 28, 29, 193, 199, 202, 203
WPA, 92, 113, 120, 124, 243, 258, 262, 265

X
XaaS, 68, 228
XML injection, 209

Z
zero-day disclosure, 35, 207
zero-day exploits, 20, 191, 197
zero-knowledge test, 190
zero-trust environment, 260
zero-wiping, 271
Zigbee, 61, 223

WILEY END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley’s ebook EULA.


