1. Ben is reviewing configuration management documentation for his organization and finds the following diagram in his company’s document repository. What key information is missing from the diagram that a security professional would need to build firewall rules based on the diagram? Client workstations Firewall Ports 139, 445 Server Ports 139, 445 192.168.10/24 10.1.10.111
2. You are responsible for network security at an e-commerce company. You want to ensure that you are using best practices for the e-commerce website your company hosts. What standard would be the best for you to review?
3. Cheryl is responsible for cybersecurity at a mid-sized insurance company. She has decided to use a different vendor for network antimalware than she uses for host antimalware. Is this a recommended action, and why or why not?
4. Scott wants to back up the contents of a network-attached storage (NAS) device used in a critical department in his company. He is concerned about how long it would take to restore the device if a significant failure happened, and he is less concerned about the ability to recover in the event of a natural disaster. Given these requirements, what type of backup should he use for the NAS?
5. Yasmine is responding to a full datacenter outage, and after referencing the documentation for the systems in the datacenter she brings the network back up, then focuses on the storage area network (SAN), followed by the database servers. Why does her organization list systems for her to bring back online in a particular series?
6. Enrique is concerned about backup data being infected by malware. The company backs up key servers to digital storage on a backup server. Which of the following would be most effective in preventing the backup data being infected by malware?
7. What type of attribute is a Windows picture password?
8. Which of the following is not a critical characteristic of a hash function?
9. Naomi wants to hire a third-party secure data destruction company. What process is most frequently used to ensure that third parties properly perform data destruction?
10. Olivia wants to ensure that the code executed as part of her application is secure from tampering and that the application itself cannot be tampered with. Which of the following solutions should she use and why?
11. Trevor wants to use an inexpensive device to build a custom embedded system that can monitor a process. Which of the following options is best suited for this if he wants to minimize expense and maximize simplicity while avoiding the potential for system or device compromise?
12. Amanda wants to use a digital signature on an email she is sending to Maria. Which key should she use to sign the email?
13. Nick wants to make an encryption key harder to crack, and he increases the key length by one bit from a 128-bit encryption key to a 129-bit encryption key as an example to explain the concept. How much more work would an attacker have to do to crack the key using brute force if no other attacks or techniques could be applied?
14. Gurvinder knows that the OpenSSL passwd file protects passwords by using 1,000 rounds of MD5 hashing to help protect password information. What is this technique called?
15. Fred wants to make it harder for an attacker to use rainbow tables to attack the hashed password values he stores. What should he add to every password before it is hashed to make it impossible for the attacker to simply use a list of common hashed passwords to reveal the passwords Fred has stored if they gain access to them?
16. Ian wants to send an encrypted message to Michelle using public key cryptography. What key does he need to encrypt the message?
17. What key advantage does an elliptical curve cryptosystem have over an RSA-based cryptosystem?
18. What cryptographic capability ensures that even if the server’s private key is compromised,the session keys will not be compromised?
19. Alaina is reviewing practices for her reception desk and wants to ensure that the receptiondesk’s visitor log is accurate. What process should she add to the guard’s check-in procedure?
20. In an attempt to observe hacker techniques, a security administrator configures a nonproduction network to be used as a target so that he can covertly monitor network attacks. What isthis type of network called?
21. What type of system is used to control and monitor power plant power generation systems?
22. What major technical component of modern cryptographic systems is likely to be susceptibleto quantum attacks?
23. Geoff wants to establish a contract with a company to have datacenter space that is equipped and ready to go so that he can bring his data to the location in the event of a disaster. Whattype of disaster recovery site is he looking for?
24. Olivia needs to ensure an IoT device does not have its operating system modified by third parties after it is sold. What solution should she implement to ensure that this doesnot occur?
25. What statement is expected to be true for a post-quantum cryptography world?
26. What function does counter mode perform in a cryptographic system?
27. Which of the following items is not included in a blockchain’s public ledger?
28. Suzan is responsible for application development in her company. She wants to have all web applications tested before they are deployed live. She wants to use a test system that is identical to the live server. What is this called?
29. Alexandra is preparing to run automated security tests against the code that developers in her organization have completed. Which environment is she most likely to run them in if the next step is to deploy the code to production?
30. Chris wants to limit who can use an API that his company provides and be able to log usage of the API uniquely to each organization that they provide access to. What solution is most often used to do this?
31. Derek has been assigned to assess the security of smart meters. Which of the following is not a common concern for an embedded system like a smart meter?
32. Selah wants to analyze real-world attack patterns against systems similar to what she already has deployed in her organization. She would like to see local commands on a compromised system and have access to any tools or other materials the attackers would normally deploy.  What type of technology could she use to do this?
33. Charles sets up a network with intentional vulnerabilities and then instruments it so that he can watch attackers and capture details of their attacks and techniques. What has Charles set up?
34. Maria is a security engineer with a manufacturing company. During a recent investigation, she discovered that an engineer’s compromised workstation was being used to connect to SCADA systems while the engineer was not logged in. The engineer is responsible for administering the SCADA systems and cannot be blocked from connecting to them. What should Maria do to mitigate this threat?   
35. AES and DES are an example of what type of cipher? 
36. Gerard is responsible for secure communications with his company’s e-commerce server. All communications with the server use TLS. What is the most secure option for Gerard to store the private key on the e-commerce server?    
37. What purpose does a transit gateway serve in cloud services? 
38. Web developers in your company currently have direct access to the production server and can deploy code directly to it. This can lead to unsecure code, or simply code flaws being deployed to the live system. What would be the best change you could make to mitigate this risk? 
39. Ian is concerned about VoIP phones used in his organization due to the use of SMS as part of their multifactor authentication rollout. What type attack should he be concerned about?    
40. Angela wants to ensure that IoT devices in her organization have a secure configuration when they are deployed and that they are ready for further configuration for their specific purposes. What term is used to describe these standard configurations used as part of her configuration management program?   
41. Why is heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) part of organizational security planning?    
42. What advantage does symmetric encryption have over asymmetric encryption? 
43. Laura knows that predictability is a problem in pseudo-random number generators (PRNGs) used for encryption operations. What term describes the measure of uncertainty used to a PRNG?   
44. Which cloud service model gives the consumer the ability to use applications provided by the cloud provider over the Internet?    
45. Chris sets a resource policy in his cloud environment. What type of control does this allow him to exert?    
46. Chris sets up SAN replication for his organization. What has he done? 
47. Mike is a security analyst and has just removed malware from a virtual server. What feature of virtualization would he use to return the virtual server to a last known good state?    
48. Lisa is concerned about fault tolerance for her database server. She wants to ensure that if any single drive fails, it can be recovered. What RAID level would support this goal while using distributed parity bits?   
49. Jarod is concerned about EMI affecting a key escrow server. Which method would be most effective in mitigating this risk?    
50. John is responsible for physical security at his company. He is particularly concerned about an attacker driving a vehicle into the building. Which of the following would provide the best protection against this threat?   
51. Mark is responsible for cybersecurity at a small college. There are many computer labs that are open for students to use. These labs are monitored only by a student worker, who may or may not be very attentive. Mark is concerned about the theft of computers. Which of the following would be the best way for him to mitigate this threat?   
52. Joanne is responsible for security at a power plant. The facility is very sensitive and security is extremely important. She wants to incorporate two-factor authentication with physical security. What would be the best way to accomplish this?   
53. Which of the following terms refers to the process of establishing a standard for security? 
54. Angela configures a honeypot to ongoing events like user logins and logouts, disk usage, program and script loads, and similar information. What is this type of deception called?    
55. Which level of RAID is a “stripe of mirrors”? 
56. Isabella is responsible for database management and security. She is attempting to remove redundancy in the database. What is this process called?    
57. Gary wants to implement an AAA service. Which of the following services should he implement?    
58. Where does TLS/SSL inspection happen, and how does it occur? 
59. Diana wants to prevent drones from flying over her organization’s property. What can she do?    
60. Isaac has configured an infrastructure-as-code-based cloud environment that relies on codedefined system builds to spin up new systems as the services they run need to scale horizontally. An attacker discovers a vulnerability and exploits a system in the cluster, but it is shut down and terminated before they can perform a forensic analysis. What term describes this type of environment?   
61. You are responsible for database security at your company. You are concerned that programmers might pass badly written SQL commands to the database, or that an attacker might exploit badly written SQL in applications. What is the best way to mitigate this threat?    
62. Joanna’s company has adopted multiple software-as-a-service (SaaS) tools and now wants to better coordinate them so that the data that they each contain can be used in multiple services. What type of solution should she recommend if she wants to minimize the complexity of long-term maintenance for her organizatio ?  
63. Farès is responsible for managing the many virtual machines on his company’s networks. Over the past two years, the company has increased the number of virtual machines significantly. Farès is no longer able to effectively manage the large number of machines. What is the term for this situation?   
64. Mary is responsible for virtualization management in her company. She is concerned about VM escape. Which of the following methods would be the most effective in mitigating this risk?   
65. Irene wants to use a cloud service for her organization that does not require her to do any coding or system administration, and she wants to do minimal configuration to perform the tasks that her organization needs to accomplish. What type of cloud service is she most likely looking fo ?     
66. Which of the following is not an advantage of a serverless architectur ? 
67. You are responsible for server room security for your company. You are concerned about physical theft of the computers. Which of the following would be best able to detect theft or attempted theft?   
68. Alexandra wants to prevent systems that are infected with malware from connecting to a botnet controller that she knows the hostnames for. What type of solution can she implement to prevent the systems from reaching the controller?   
69. Hector is using infrared cameras to verify that servers in his datacenter are being properly racked. Which of the following datacenter elements is he concerned about?    
70. Gerald is concerned about unauthorized people entering the company’s building. Which of the following would be most effective in preventing this?    
71. Which of the following is the most important benefit from implementing SDN? 
72. Mark is an administrator for a health care company. He has to support an older, legacy application. He is concerned that this legacy application might have vulnerabilities that would affect the rest of the network. What is the most efficient way to mitigate this?    
73. Charles is performing a security review of an internally developed web application. During his review, he notes that the developers who wrote the application have made use of thirdparty libraries. What risks should he note as part of his review?    
74. Valerie is considering deploying a cloud access security broker. What sort of tool is she looking at?    
75. Derek has been asked to implement his organization’s service-oriented architecture as a set of microservices. What does he need to implement?    
76. Abigail is responsible for datacenters in a large, multinational company. She has to support multiple datacenters in diverse geographic regions. What would be the most effective way for her to manage these centers consistently across the enterprise?   
77. Elizabeth wants to implement a cloud-based authorization system. Which of the following protocols is she most likely to use for that purpose?    
78. Greg is assessing an organization and finds that they have numerous multifunction printers
(MFPs) that are accessible from the public Internet. What is the most critical security issue he should identify?    
79. Keith has deployed computers to users in his company that load their resources from a central server environment rather than from their own hard drives. What term describes this model?   
80. Henry notices that a malware sample he is analyzing downloads a file from imgur.com and then executes an attack using Mimikatz, a powerful Windows password account theft tool. When he analyzes the image, he cannot identify any recognizable code. What technique has most likely been used in this scenari ?     
81. Molly wants to advise her organization’s developers on secure coding techniques to avoid data exposure. Which of the following is not a common technique used to prevent sensitive data exposure?   
82. Naomi wants to secure a real-time operating system (RTOS). Which of the following techniques is best suited to providing RTOS security? 
83. John is examining the logs for his company’s web applications. He discovers what he believes is a breach. After further investigation, it appears as if the attacker executed code from one of the libraries the application uses, code that is no longer even used by the application. What best describes this attac ?     
84. Chris is designing an embedded system that needs to provide low-power, peer-to-peer communications. Which of the following technologies is best suited to this purpos ? 
85. What term is used to describe encryption that can permit computations to be conducted on ciphertext, with the results matching what would have occurred if the same computations were performed on the original plain text?   
86. Tony wants to implement a biometric system for entry access in his organization. Which of the following systems is likely to be most accepted by members of his organization’s staff?    
87. Nathan wants to implement off-site cold backups. What backup technology is most commonly used for this type of need?    
88. Allan is considering implementing off-site storage. When he does, his datacenter manager offers four solutions. Which of these solutions will best ensure resilience and why?    
89. Ben has been asked to explain the security implications for an embedded system that his organization is considering building and selling. Which of the following is not a typical concern for embedded systems?    
90. You are concerned about the security of new devices your company has implemented. Some of these devices use SoC technology. What would be the best security measure you could take for these?   
91. Vincent works for a company that manufactures portable medical devices, such as insulin pumps. He is concerned about ensuring these devices are secure. Which of the following is the most important step for him to take?    
92. Emile is concerned about securing the computer systems in vehicles. Which of the following vehicle types has significant cybersecurity vulnerabilities?    
93. What additional security control can Amanda implement if she uses compiled software that she cannot use if she only has software binaries?    
94. Greta wants to understand how a protocol works, including what values should be included in packets that use that protocol. Where is this data definitively defined and documented?    
95. Using standard naming conventions provides a number of advantages. Which of the following is not an advantage of using a naming convention?    
96. What process is shown in the following figure? Change committed V Bui d oc urs V Tests r n V De loy to staging V T s s r n V Deploy to production       97. Keith wants to identify a subje   from camera footage from a train station. What biometric technology is best suited to this type of identification?     
98. Your company is interested in keeping data in the cloud. Management feels that public clouds are not secure but is concerned about the cost of a priva e cloud. What is the solution you would recommend?     
99. Your development team primarily uses Windows, but they need to develop a specific solution that will run on Linux. What is the best solution to get your programmers access to Linux systems for development and testing if you want to use a cloud solution where you could run the final systems in production as wel ?     
100. Corrine has been asked to automate security responses, including blocking IP addresses from which attacks are detected using a series of scripts. What critical danger should she consider while building the scripts for her organization?    
101. Madhuri has configured a backup that will back up all of the changes to a system since the last time that a full backup occurred. What type of backup has she set up?    
102. You are the CIO for a small company. The company wants to use cloud storage for some of its data, but cost is a major concern. Which of the following cloud deployment models would be best?    
103. What is the point where false acceptance rate and false rejection rate cross over in a biometric system?  
104. Devin is building a cloud system and wants to ensure that it can adapt to changes in its workload by provisioning or deprovisioning resources automatically. His goal is to ensure that the environment is not overprovisioned or underprovisioned and that he is efficiently spending money on his infrastructure. What concept describes thi ?     
105. Nathaniel wants to improve the fault tolerance of a server in his datacenter. If he wants to ensure that a power outage does not cause the server to lose power, what is the first control he should deploy from the following list?    
106. Which of the following is the best description for VM sprawl?  
107. Which of the following is the best description of a stored procedure? 
108. Farès is responsible for security at his company. He has had bollards installed around the front of the building. What is Farès trying to accomplish?    
109. The large company that Selah works at uses badges with a magnetic stripe for entry access. Which threat model should Selah be concerned about with badges like these?    
110. You are concerned about VM escape attacks causing a significant data breach. Which of the following would provide the most protection against this?    
111. Teresa is the network administrator for a small company. The company is interested in a robust and modern network defense strategy but lacks the staff to support it. What would be the best solution for Teresa to use?    
112. Dennis is trying to set up a system to analyze the integrity of applications on his network. He wants to make sure that the applications have not been tampered with or Trojaned. What would be most useful in accomplishing this goal?    
113. George is a network administrator at a power plant. He notices that several turbines had unusual ramp-ups in cycles last week. After investigating, he finds that an executable was uploaded to the system control console and caused this. Which of the following would be most effective in preventing this from affecting the SCADA system in the futur ?     
114. Gordon knows that regression testing is important but wants to prevent old versions of code from being re-inserted into new releases. What process should he use to prevent this?    
115. Mia is a network administrator for a bank. She is responsible for secure communications with her company’s customer website. Which of the following would be the best for her to implement?    
116. Which of the following is not a common challenge with smartcard-based authentication s ystems?    
117. Susan’s secure building is equipped with alarms that go off if specific doors are opened. As part of a penetration test, Susan wants to determine if the alarms are effective. What technique is used by penetration testers to make alarms less effective?    
118. What term is used to describe the general concept of “anything as a service”?  
119. What role does signage play in building security?  
120. Nora has rented a building with access to bandwidth and power in case her organization ever experiences a disaster. What type of site has she established?    
121. Matt is patching a Windows system and wants to have the ability to revert to a last known good configuration. What should he set?    
122. Which multifactor authentication can suffer from problems if the system or device’s time is not correct?    
123. The company that Nina works for has suffered from recent thefts of packages from a lowsecurity delivery area. What type of camera capability can they use to ensure that a recently delivered package is properly monitored?    
124. Which of the following is not a common organizational security concern for wearable devices?    
125. Tim is building a Faraday cage around his server room. What is the primary purpose of a Faraday cage?    
126. You are working for a large company. You are trying to find a solution that will provide controlled physical access to the building and record every employee who enters the building. Which of the following would be the best for you to implement?    
127. What concern causes organizations to choose physical locks over electronic locks?  
128. Kara has been asked to include IP schema management as part of her configuration management efforts. Which of the following is a security advantage of IP schema configuration management?    
129. Carole is concerned about security for her server room. She wants the most secure lock she can find for the server room door. Which of the following would be the best choice for her?    
130. Melissa wants to implement NIC teaming for a server in her datacenter. What two major capabilities will this provide for her?    
131. Molly is implementing biometrics in her company. Which of the following should be her biggest concern?    
132. Mike is concerned about data sovereignty for data that his organization captures and maintains. What best describes his concern? 
133. What are the key limiting factors for cryptography on low-power devices? 
134. Fred is responsible for physical security in his company. He wants to find a good way to protect the USB thumb drives that have BitLocker keys stored on them. Which of the following would be the best solution for this situation?    
135. Juanita is responsible for servers in her company. She is looking for a fault-tolerant solution that can handle two drives failing. Which of the following should she select?    
136. Maria’s organization uses a CCTV monitoring system in their main office building, which is occupied and in use 24-7. The system uses cameras connected to displays to provide real-time monitoring. What additional feature is the most likely to receive requests to ensure that her organization can effectively use the CCTV system to respond to theft a d other issue ?    
137. What is the primary threat model against static codes used for multifactor authentication?  
138. Dennis needs a cryptographic algorithm that provides low latency. What type of cryptosystem is most likely to meet this performance requirement?    
139. The company that Devin works for has selected a nondescript building and does not use exterior signage to advertise that the facility belongs to them. What physical security term describes this type of security control?    
140. Ed knows that TLS sessions start using asymmetric encryption, and then move to use symmetric keys. What limitation of asymmetric cryptography drives this design decision?    
141. When you are concerned about application security, what is the most important issue in memory management?    
142. Bart wants to ensure that the files he encrypts remain secure for as long as possible. What should Bart do to maximize the longevity of his encrypted file’s security?    
143. Nadine’s organization stores and uses sensitive information, including Social Security numbers. After a recent compromise, she has been asked to implement technology that can help prevent this sensitive data from leaving the company’s systems and networks. What type of technology should Nadine implement?    
144. What form is the data used for quantum key distribution sent in?  
145. Alicia needs to ensure that a process cannot be subverted by a single employee. What security control can she implement to prevent this?    
146. Social login, the ability to use an existing identity from a site like Google, Facebook, or a Microsoft account, is an example of which of the following concepts?     
147. Michelle is traveling and wants to plug her phone into the charger in her hotel room. What security precaution can she use to ensure that her phone is not attacked by a malicious device built into the charger in her room?     
148. Which cloud service model provides the consumer with the infrastructure to create applications and host them? 
149. Why is avoiding initialization vector and key reuse recommended to ensure secure encryption?     
150. Dan knows that his Linux system generates entropy that is used for multiple functions, including encryption. Which of the following is a source of entropy for the Linux kernel?     
151. Mike knows that computational overheads are a concern for cryptographic systems. What can he do to help limit the computational needs of his solution?     
152. What is the primary role of lighting in a physical security environment? 
153. Dennis has deployed servers and storage to each of the facilities his organization runs to ensure that scientific equipment can send and receive data at the speed that it needs to function. What computational design concept describes this?     
154. Ben replaces sensitive data in his database with unique identifiers. The identifiers allow him to continue to take actions on the data without exposing the data itself. What type of solution has he deployed?     
155. Dana wants to discourage potential malicious actors from accessing her facility. Which of the following is both a deterrent and a physical control?     
156. What additional capabilities does adding a digital signature to an encrypted message provide?     
157. Megan has been asked to set up a periodic attestation process for accounts in her organization. What has she been asked to do? 
158. Elaine wants to adopt appropriate response and recovery controls for natural disasters. What type of control should she use to prepare for a multihour power outage caused by a tornado?     
159. What does a message authentication code (MAC) do when used as part of a cryptographic system?     
160. Charles wants to put a fire suppression system in place in an area where highly sensitive electronics are in use. What type of fire suppression system is best suited to this type of environment if Charles is concerned about potential harm to first responders or on-site staff?     
161. What technology is typically used for proximity card readers? 
162. How does asymmetric encryption support nonrepudiation? 
163. Olivia knows that she needs to consider geography as part of her security considerations. Which of the following is a primary driver of geographical considerations for security?     
164. Scott wants to limit the impact of potential threats from UAVs. What physical security control is best suited to this purpose? 
165. Derek wants to explain the concept of resource constraints driving security constraints when using encryption. Which of the following descriptions best explains the trade-offs that he should explain to his management?     
166. Amanda wants to ensure that the message she is sending remains confidential. What should she do to ensure this?     
167. What security advantage do cloud service providers like Amazon, Google, and Microsoft have over local staff and systems for most small to mid-sized organizations?     
168. Tim wants to ensure that his web servers can scale horizontally during traffic increases, while also allowing them to be patched or upgraded without causing outages. What type of network device should he deploy?     
169. Gabby wants to ensure that sensitive data can be transmitted in unencrypted form by using physical safeguards. What type of solution should she implement?     
170. Maureen conceals information she wants to transmit surreptitiously by modifying an MP3 file in a way that does not noticeably change how it sounds. What is this technique called?     
171. Nicole is assessing risks to her multifactor authentication system. Which of the following is the most likely threat model against short message service (SMS) push notifications to cell phones for her environment?     
172. John wants to protect data at rest so that he can process it and use it as needed in its original form. What solution from the following list is best suited to this requirement?     
173. Nathaniel has deployed the control infrastructure for his manufacturing plant without a network connection to his other networks. What term describes this type of configuration? 
174. Naomi hides the original data in a Social Security number field to ensure that it is not exposed to users of her database. What data security technique does this describe?     
175. Isaac wants to use on-premises cloud computing. What term describes this type of cloud computing solution?     
176. What is the primary threat model against physical tokens used for multifactor authentication?     
177. Maria is a security administrator for a large bank. She is concerned about malware, particularly spyware that could compromise customer data. Which of the following would be the best approach for her to mitigate the threat of spyware?     
178. Charles has configured his multifactor system to require both a PIN and a password. How many effective factors does he have in place once he presents both of these and his username?     
179. Fred adds the value 89EA443CCDA16B89 to every password as a salt. What issue might this cause?     
180. Alaina needs to physically secure the root encryption keys for a certificate authority. What type of security device should she use to maintain local control and security for them?     
181. Angela wants to help her organization use APIs more securely and needs to select three API security best practices. Which of the following options is not a common API security best practice?     
182. Frank uses a powerful magnet to wipe tapes before they are removed from his organization’s inventory. What type of secure data destruction technique has he used? 
183. Angela has been asked to deploy 5G cellular inside her organization. What concern should she raise with her management about the effort to implement it?     
184. Chris is reviewing the rights that staff in his organization have to data stored in a group of departmental file shares. He is concerned that rights management practices have not been followed and that employees who have been with the company he works for have not had their privileges removed after they switched jobs. What type of issue has Chris encountere ?     
185. Isaac has been asked to set up a honeyfile. What should he configur ? 
186. Yasmine wants to ensure that she has met a geographic dispersal requirement for her datacenters. How far away should she place her datacenter based on common best practices for dispersal? 
187. What term describes extending cloud computing to the edge of an enterprise network? 
188. Which of the following algorithms is a key stretching algorithm? 
189. Jocelyn has been asked to implement a directory service. Which of the following technologies should she deploy?  
